PLEASE REVIEW THE FULL PRINTED
MEETING AGENDA PROVIDED MR.
LEONARD, WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL COMMERCIALLY
COMMISSIONED RAYBANS HERE
COMMISSIONER WAGE COMMISSIONER
MILLS.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE
COMMISSIONER DEAR HERE
COMMISSIONER SAUVé HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER CLARK.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE HERE WE
HAVE FIVE MEMBERS FOR A QUORUM
.
WE NEED SIX MEMBERS TO ACT ON A
PLAN.
I DO ANTICIPATE COMMISSIONER
CLERKS SHOULD BE ARRIVING SO I
RECOMMEND WE PROCEED AND
HOPEFULLY SHE WILL ARRIVE SOON.
>> THANK YOU, MR. LEONARD.
WE NOW MOVE ON TO NUMBER THREE
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
MAY I PLEASE HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WHETHER IT BE
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I I AND HE
OPPOSED THE MOTION CARRIES ITEM
FOUR MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS
MEETING.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE SEPTEMBER
19TH MEETING MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
SECONDED COMMISSIONER WHETHER
BE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY I I
ANY OPPOSED THE MOTION CARRIES
ITEM FIVE REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT?
>> YES I CAN REPORT THAT
WHEREAS LAST EVENING'S COUNCIL
MEETING CONSISTED MOSTLY
OF CONSENT AGENDA ITEMS.
ONE OF THOSE WAS AN ITEM TO
FUND THE PLAN.
TERRIFIC.
THANK YOU MR. LEINERT.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT A FEW QUICK ITEMS.
SPEAKING OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN, THE CONSULTANT TEAM WILL
BE JOINING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AT YOUR OCTOBER 11TH
WORK SESSION TO PROVIDE AN
OVERVIEW OF THE PROCESS AHEAD.
FIRST DIALOG WITH WITH THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND A
REPORT ON SOME OF THE
STAKEHOLDER INTERVIEWS THAT
HAVE OCCURRED THUS FAR.
WE ALSO HAVE PURSUANT TO CITY
COUNCIL DIRECTION ON
CONSIDERING SOME ADDITIONAL
TSAY ONE HORRORS ON
OCTOBER 12TH WE WILL HAVE THE
FIRST COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
MEETING.
THIS WILL BE HELD AT TREVER
WOOD LIBRARY AT SIX THIRTY P.M.
I BELIEVE DOUBLE CHECK THAT
TIME ON OUR WEBSITE.
ANYBODY LISTENING?
THAT WILL BE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
DISCUSS A PROPOSED DC ONE
ZONING FOR THE PLYMOUTH ROAD
CORRIDOR.
I'M STILL IN THE PROCESS
OF SCHEDULING A SIMILAR MEETING
FOR WASHTENAW AVENUE CORRIDOR
HAVING A LITTLE BIT MORE
CHALLENGE FINDING THAT SPACE
BUT SHOULD GET THAT WRAPPED UP
AND SHARE THAT WITH YOU SOON
AND THEN I'LL MAYBE LEAVE ONE
OF THE COMMISSIONERS WHO
PARTICIPATED IN OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
MEETING EARLY THIS WEEK FOR AN
UPDATE IN THAT REGARD.
>> THANK YOU.
SO COMMISSIONER OFFICERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISON I HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT FOR
COMMISSIONER.
>> SO THEY WERE JUST DOING A
LITTLE MORE.
WE'RE HERE TO FIGURE OUT WHO'S
DOING IT.
SO A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SUBCOMMITTEE MET YESTERDAY TO
UNDERSTAND CURRENT APPLICATIONS
TO THE STEERING COMMITTEE AND
HOW TO DECIDE AND CHOOSE RIGHT
NOW AS WE UNDERSTAND IT, WE'RE
WE HAVE A HANDFUL BUT WE'RE
LOOKING FOR EVEN MORE
APPLICATIONS THE STEERING
COMMITTEE AND SO WE ARE
EXTENDING THE APPLICATION UNTIL
OCTOBER 16TH.
THE CURRENT POST OUR DEADLINE
IS OCTOBER 6TH.
SO PLEASE TELL ALL OF YOUR
NETWORKS THAT WE WANT A WIDE
AND DIVERSE PARTICIPATION IN
OUR STEERING COMMITTEE.
THANK YOU.
I CAN REPORT THAT THE ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE MET LAST
WEEK AND WE DISCUSSED ORDINANCE
REVISIONS AROUND DRIVE THRU
LANES AND THE COMMISSION CAN
EXPECT SOMETHING TO COME BEFORE
THEM SOONISH REGARDING THAT I
DON'T HAVE A DATE CERTAIN ANY
OTHER REPORTS?
OK, THERE WERE A NUMBER
OF WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS WHICH
WERE INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKET
.
>> SO FOR NOW TO AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER SIX PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES.
THIS IS ABOUT AN ISSUE WHICH IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
BRUSSTAR IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
IF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITIES FOR SELECT CALLERS
WHO'VE RAISED THEIR HAND IN THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS
SO WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME SEEING NO ONE WE WILL MOVE
TO ZOOM.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY MR. LEONARD?
>> NO HANDS RAISED.
>> ALL RIGHT, THANK YOU.
WE WILL CLOSE THAT PART OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THE NEXT ITEM
NUMBER SEVEN PUBLIC HEARINGS
FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING.
MR. LEONARD, WE HAVE TWO PUBLIC
SCHEDULED FOR THE 7TH TUESDAY,
OCTOBER 17TH PLANNING FOR
MEETING ONE THIRTY EIGHT
SEVENTY FOUR RESEARCH PARK
DRIVE.
THIS IS A SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING LISTED FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL.
I THINK THAT WILL ACTUALLY BE
FOR OUR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL PROPOSAL TO CONSTRUCT
ONE HUNDRED AND TEN THOUSAND
ONE HUNDRED AND TEN EIGHT
HUNDRED THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
OFFICE RESEARCH LAB SPACE
THAT'S PHASE TWO OF THE PROJECT
FOR A NEW OVERALL TOTAL OF TWO
HUNDRED AND FORTY ONE ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
A NEW SEVENTY SEVEN SPACE
PARKING LOT IS ALSO PROPOSED IN
THE RTC RESEARCH DISTRICT AND
OUR DISTRICT.
THE SITE IS TOTAL SIXTEEN POINT
NINE ACRES.
THE FIRST PHASE OF THIS WAS
SARTORIS.
IF THAT RINGS A BELL THE SECOND
PUBLIC HEARING IS RETURNING
APPLICATION TWENTY NINE TWENTY
NINE PLYMOUTH ROAD A SITE PLAN
FOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL THIS IS FOR THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CREDIT
UNION IS REQUESTING DEMOLITION
OF THE EXISTING OFFICE BUILDING
AND CONSTRUCTING A ONE STORY
FOUR THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED
FORTY SQUARE FOOT BUILDING ON
THIS OFFICE ON SITE.
BUT ONE POINT SEVENTY THREE
ACRE SITE IS PROPOSED TO BE
SPLIT WITH THE WESTERN TO
REMAIN VACANT ADDRESS ACCESS IS
PROPOSED OFF OF PLYMOUTH ROAD
AND ACCESSING TWENTY TWO
PARKING SPACES.
ADDRESSES INCLUDE TWENTY NINE,
TWENTY NINE AND TWENTY NINE
THIRTY FIVE PLYMOUTH ROAD.
THIS PETITION RETURNS WITHOUT
THE CORRESPONDING DRIVE THROUGH
THAT WAS PROPOSED IN OUR
PREVIOUS ITERATION OF THIS PLAN
.
THANK YOU.
OK SO WE ARE ON TO ITEM NINE A
AND THAT IS NINE HUNDRED
BRIARWOOD CIRCLE THIS IS NINE
HUNDRED BRIARWOOD CIRCLE SITE
PLAN AND REZONING FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THE DEVELOPER PROPOSES TO
REPLACE THE EXISTING SEARS
STORE WITH A TWO LEVEL GROCERY
FIFTY SEVEN THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED FORTY NINE SQUARE FEET
AND A TWO LEVEL SPORTING GOODS
STORE ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET WITH AN ADJACENT
PLAYING FIELD.
THE PROPOSAL ALSO INCLUDES
THREE HUNDRED FIFTY FOUR
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNITS
AND IN A FOUR STOREY BUILDING A
PARKING GARAGE AND A REDESIGNED
REDESIGNED PARKING ADDED
LANDSCAPING.
A NEW CONNECTOR ROADWAY WILL
INTERSECT WITH BRIARWOOD CIRCLE
EAST OF MALL DRIVE.
THE EIGHTEEN POINT TWO ACRE
SITE WILL UNDERGO ZONING FROM
PARKING TO SEE TO BE COMMERCIAL
AFFECTING EIGHT POINT NINE
ACRES AND THE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL WILL
BEGIN WITH A TEN MINUTE
PETITION OR PRESENTATION.
>> HI WELCOME.
HI HELLO.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN PHIPPS.
I'M WITH SIMON PROPERTY GROUP
AND I'M HERE TONIGHT WITH OUR
DEVELOPMENT TEAM TO WALK YOU
THROUGH OUR THE REDEVELOPMENT
PLAN FOR THE FORMER SEARES SITE
AT THE MALL.
>> WANTED TO START WITH A
LITTLE BIT OF SERENDIPITY.
IT WAS 50 YEARS AGO TODAY,
OCTOBER 3RD, 1973 THAT THE MALL
OPENED TO THE PUBLIC.
SO IT'S LITTLE IT'S FITTING
THAT WE'RE HERE TO TALK ABOUT
THE CONTINUING EVOLUTION OF THE
MALL.
I THINK EVERYONE KNOWS WHERE
THE MALL CITED BY THE
INTERSTATE BETWEEN EISENHOWER
AND STATE STREET'S I WANTED TO
MENTION THE THE OWNERSHIP
OF THE MALL SITE.
SIMON PROPERTY GROUP DOESN'T
OWN THE ENTIRETY OF THE MALL
SITE.
MACY'S OWNS ITS OWN POZOLE
PENNEY'S OWNS ITS OWN CASTLE ON
MORENTE ITS OWN PARCEL THE
BRIARWOOD MALL ITSELF AND THAT
PARCEL WHICH IS IN YELLOW ON
THIS
SLIDE IS OWNED BY A
PARTNERSHIP WITH SIMON
AND
GENERAL MOTORS PENSION FUND AND
SO THE VACANT ACRES SPACE WHICH
IS THE FORMER CIA SITE IN GREEN
THAT'S REAL.
THAT'S WHAT SIMON OWNS AND
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE HERE TONIGHT
TO TALK ABOUT REDEVELOPING
CURRENT ZONING IS PARKING AND
SEE TO BE DESIGNATIONS AND WE
ARE PROPOSING CHANGING A POINT
TO NINE ACRES OF PARKING TO THE
CTP DESIGNATION AND THAT AREA
IS OUTLINED IN THE HATCHET
AREA.
THERE'S A COUPLE A COUPLE
OF SPOTS THERE.
THE WE HAVE ONE SITE PLAN
APPLICATION AND WE'VE WE'VE
BIFURCATED IT INTO TWO SITES
SITE A, SITE B, SITE A IS WILL
BE THE LARGE FORMAT RETAIL AND
THE GROCERY STORE AND THAT WILL
BE DEVELOPED BY SIMON AND SITE
B IS THE RESIDENTIAL SITE AND
THAT WILL BE DEVELOPED IN A
PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN SIMON AND
HEINZ.
>> OBVIOUSLY WE HAVE TO
DEMOLISH THE ANCHOR STORE TO TO
FOR THE REDEVELOPED THAT THAT
SHOWS THE DEMOLITION AREA
OF THE STORE AND THAT IS THIS
IS AN IMAGE OF THE EXISTING
STORE.
AIN'T SHE A BEAUT AND I THINK
EVEN THOSE IN BACK IN 1973
WOULD THINK THAT THIS IS
PROBABLY OUTLIVED ITS
USEFULNESS.
SO AT OK THEN THIS SLIDE SHOWS
SITE SITE BEING A LITTLE MORE
SPECIFICITY SITE A HAS GOT A
LARGE FORMAT RETAIL ANCHORED TO
THE MALL OF THE GROCERY AND
ABOUT A HALF ACRE PLAZA THE
RETAILS ABOUT 100000 FEET, THE
GROCERIES ABOUT FIFTY EIGHT
THOUSAND FEET AND WE INTEND ON
PUTTING IN ALL THE REQUISITE
SPACES AND BIKE PARKING SPACES
AND IN THIS AREA AND THEN SITE
B IS THE FOUR FLOOR 350 FOR
UNIT APARTMENT COMPLEX SAME
THERE WE INTEND TO PUT ALL THE
REQUISITE EEVEE AND BIKE SPACES
IN THAT AREA AS WELL AND THIS
JUST SHOWS THE EXISTING
CONDITION AND THEN RENDERING
FROM THE SAME PERSPECTIVE
OF THE THE REDEVELOPMENT
BECAUSE WE ARE DEMOING THE
BUILDING AND WE'RE PUTTING THE
RESIDENTIAL OUT IN THE PARKING
LOT ESSENTIALLY WE ARE
INCREASING THE GREEN SPACE IN
THE ON THE SITE AND THERE
THERE'S KIND OF AN EXISTING
VIEW AND SHOW THE FUTURE FUTURE
VIEW WITH THE INCREASED GREEN
AREA WE ARE INCREASING THE
MULTIMODALITY OF THE
DEVELOPMENT SITE.
WE ARE PROPOSING CROSSWELL
WALKS ACROSS BRAIDWOOD TO THE
ADJACENT PROPERTIES.
WE'RE PROPOSING A BIKE BIKE
PATH ON BRIARWOOD CIRCLE
ADJACENT TO THE MALL.
WE ARE CREATING AN INTERNAL
CIRCULATION DRIVE BETWEEN THE
GROCERY AND THE AND THE
RESIDENTIAL AND THEN WE'VE GOT
A FAIRLY EXTENSIVE NETWORK
OF NEW SIDEWALKS THAT GO AMONG
AND AROUND THE THE NEW
BUILDINGS TO HELP WITH
CONNECTIVITY.
I WOULD ALSO MENTION THIS SHOWS
THE CURRENT BUS ROUTES WE'VE
BEEN WORKING WITH EIGHTY-EIGHT
TO COME UP WITH WAY THEY'RE
LOOKING TO MOVE THE MOVE THE
BUS SHELTER, THE BUS STOP SO
THAT THEY CAN LESSEN THEIR
TRAVEL TIME ON SITE.
THEY'D ALSO LIKE A LITTLE MORE
AREA TO FOR FUTURE INCREASE BUS
TRAFFIC AND SO WE'RE WORKING
WITH THEM AND YOU KNOW,
BALANCING THAT WITH THE
CONVENIENCE OF THE BUS RIDERS
AND THE SAFETY OF THE MALL
PATRONS.
SO THAT'S AN ONGOING THAT'S AN
ONGOING DISCUSSION BUT IT'S
BEEN A GOOD DISCUSSION SO FAR.
>> THIS SIDE JUST SPECIFIES THE
LARGE FORMAT RETAILER.
IT WILL BE ANCHORED TO THE
MALL.
THEY'LL BE AN INTERIOR ENTRANCE
FROM THE THAT STORE INTO THE
MALL AND AGAIN IT'LL ACT AS AN
ACT AS AN ANCHOR SUCH AS SEARS
DID.
THAT'S THAT'S AN ELEVATION
OF THE PROPOSED RETAIL.
THE GROCERY WILL BE ABOUT FIFTY
EIGHT THOUSAND FEET.
IT'S NEW TO THE MARKET.
THEY ARE THEY PROVIDE THEM I
CAN'T ANNOUNCE TONIGHT I WISH I
WAS HOPING I COULD BUT WE'RE
JUST NOT QUITE READY.
BUT IT'S GOT THEY PRIDE
THEMSELVES LOCAL GENERATING THE
PRODUCE LOCALLY AND THEY'RE BIG
ON FARM TO TABLE SO THAT WOULD
BE A NICE ADDITION TO THE MALL
IN THE AREA.
AND THIS IS THIS IS AN
ELEVATION OF THAT BUILDING AND
THEN WE'RE ALSO CREATING A
GREENHOUSE BASE WHICH WILL
SERVE AS A TRANSITION FROM
INSIDE THE MALL.
THIS GREEN SPACE WILL ALSO HAVE
AN ENTRANCE FROM THE MALL
INTERIOR OUT TO THE SCREEN
SPACE WHERE IT'S ABOUT A HALF
ACRE.
WE ARE WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE
THAT A COMMUNITY GATHERING
PLACE WILL ACTIVATE IT, PROGRAM
IT AND THEN WHEN WHEN IT'S NOT
BEING ACTIVE LIKE THAT, IT'LL
BE A STATIC PLACE WHERE THEY'LL
BE SEATING PEOPLE CAN COME AND
SIT, HAVE A COFFEE WORK ON
THEIR LAPTOPS, WHATEVER AND
THEN THAT IS A CONCEPT
RENDERING OF THAT OF THE GREEN
SPACE.
>> AND WITH THAT I'M GOING TO
TURN IT OVER TO BRAD SOTO ALL
THE TIME.
SO HE'S GOING TO TALK TO YOU A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE RESIDENT
COMPONENT AND RIGHT.
THANK YOU, JOHN AND GOOD
EVENING EVERYONE.
I'M BRAD SORTABLE WITH HYNDE'S
HERE TO TALK A LITTLE AND MORE
DETAIL ON THE RESIDENTIAL
OPPORTUNITY.
WHAT SHOWN ON THIS SLIDE IT'S
ABOUT SIX ACRES OUT OF THE
EIGHT POINT NINE THAT'S BEING
REZONED AND IT REPRESENTS ABOUT
THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY MARKET
RATE APARTMENTS AND IT IS A
FOUR STORY WOOD FRAME
CONSTRUCTION AND I THINK MAYBE
ON THE NEXT SLIDE WE'VE GOT
SOME MORE DETAIL ON THE GREEN
SPACE.
WHAT I THINK YOU CAN PICK UP IN
THIS IN THIS SLIDE MORE THAN
SOME OF THE PAST WE DO HAVE TWO
INTERIOR COURTYARD SPACES THAT
WILL BE THAT WILL BE GREEN AND
OFFER AMENITIES TO OUR OUR
RESIDENTS.
WE'RE REALLY EXCITED TO JUST
FLIP BACK.
WE'RE REALLY EXCITED WITH THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO REALLY CREATE A
SENSE OF COMMUNITY AND THE
MIXED USE NATURE OF THE
LOCATION OF THIS OF THIS
PROJECT BEING SO CLOSE TO A
MILLION SQUARE FEET OF RETAIL
WITH A NEW GROCER AND THE NEW
LARGE FORMAT RETAILER TO US IS
JUST A TERRIFIC WAY TO EMBRACE
EMBRACE WALKABILITY TO HAVE
EVERYTHING SO CLOSE AT YOUR
FINGERTIPS AS A RESIDENT HERE I
KNOW THE COMMUNITY IS LOOKING
FOR ADDITIONAL MULTIFAMILY
UNITS AND I THINK THIS IS A
GREAT ADDITION TO THE
COMMUNITY.
SO WE'RE EXCITED TO TO BE HERE
PRESENTING TODAY.
I WANT TO POINT OUT WE DO HAVE
A PARKING GARAGE THAT IS
ACTUALLY EMBEDDED INSIDE SO WE
CALL THIS A PROJECT.
SO WE'VE GOT THE PARKING GARAGE
HIDDEN WHICH IS NICE.
YOU WON'T SEE THE PARKING
STRUCTURE.
IT'S THERE TO SUPPORT OUR
RESIDENTS AND THEN YOU CAN SEE
WE'VE GOT SOME WALKING PATHS
AND BIKE PATHS.
WE'VE GOT GOOD OPPORTUNITY FOR
BIKE PARKING AS WELL AROUND
INSIDE THE BUILDING.
SO MAYBE GO TO THE NEXT SLIDE.
THANK YOU.
SO HERE'S JUST SOME INITIAL
CONCEPTUAL RENDERINGS WE'RE AT
THIS POINT AT SCHEMATIC DESIGN
PHASE WE JUST COMPLETED THAT.
WE HAVE GINZLER HERE WITH US
WHO IS OUR DESIGN ARCHITECT AND
SO WE ARE ACTIVELY WORKING ON
OUR ADVANCING THE DESIGN.
THIS IS A COUPLE OF THE
ELEVATIONS OBVIOUSLY IT'S A
IT'S A LARGE BUILDING, A PRETTY
BIG FOOTPRINT ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
AND SO TAKING GREAT CARE TO
CREATE SOME CHARACTER AND SOME
DYNAMISM TO THE OUTSIDE OF THE
BUILDING SO IT DOESN'T LOOK SO
MONOLITHIC SO GENSLER I THINK
IS DOING A GREAT JOB AS WE
DEVELOP IT TO REALLY KIND
OF PUSH AND PULL THE FACADE
OF THE BUILDING JUST SO THAT
CREATES SOME OF THAT VISUALLY I
THINK THAT MEANS MY TIME UP
FINISH HERE WITH A GREAT
RENDERING AND VIEW ONCE THE
PROJECTS ARE COMPLETED WITH THE
RESIDENTIAL ON THE LEFT AND YOU
CAN SEE THE CROSHERE ER AND THE
ON THE RIGHT SIDE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
I WANT TO MOVE OUR PRESENTATION
MR KAWALSKY
.
>> OK GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
SO I JUST WANTED TO KIND
OF REITERATE MAX I'M KIND JUST
A LITTLE CLOSER TO THE
MICROPHONE PLEASE I'M SORRY
HAVE MOVED CLOSER TO YOU.
>> I COULD DO THAT.
>> OK, I JUST WANTED TO
REITERATE AGAIN SOME OF THE
PART OF THE THREE MOTIONS THAT
ARE IN FRONT OF YOU TONIGHT
OF COURSE IS A MOTION FOR THE
REZONING WHICH OBVIOUSLY WOULD
GO TO CITY COUNCIL FOR FINAL
APPROVAL.
THERE'S A MOTION FOR THE SITE
PLAN AND THERE IS A SEPARATE
MOTION FOR A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION.
SO THE LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION
IS APPROVED BY PLANNING
COMMISSION.
SO IF IF APPROVED HERE TONIGHT
IT GOES FORWARD THAT'S
OBVIOUSLY WOULD STOP HERE.
THE SITE PLAN WITH THE REZONING
PROCEED TO CITY COUNCIL.
SO I WANTED TO REALLY TOUCH I'M
NOT GOING TO GO THROUGH A LOT
OF THE DETAILS ON PLANS
SPECIFICALLY THAT THE
PETITIONER HAS ALREADY
COVERED .
BUT I REALLY WANT TO TOUCH ON
SOME OF THE HIGHLIGHTS AS
YOU'LL NOTICE.
SO THERE WERE SOME CONDITIONS
THAT ARE NOTED IN OUR FIRST
MOTION REALLY THE FIRST THE
APPROVAL OF THE LAND TRANSFER
AS YOU COULD SEE FROM ONE
OF THE SLIDES, THERE'S A LOT
OF SHIFTING OF PARCELS THAT
THAT NEEDS TO HAPPEN AROUND
HERE FOR OWNERSHIP.
THAT'S NOT NECESSARILY THAT
UNUSUAL WITH DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSALS THAT WOULD BE
SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE ANY
FINAL APPROVAL FROM COUNCIL
WOULD BE CONDITIONED UPON THAT
THAT WOULD BE COMPLETED AFTER
COUNCIL IF AND WHEN COUNCIL
WOULD APPROVE THE PLAN.
THOSE LAND TRANSFER WOULD
BE
DONE.
>> THE THE SECOND CONDITION
REALLY IS THERE'S SOME
LANDSCAPING ISSUES THAT THAT
AREN'T QUITE RESOLVED YET.
HOWEVER, AGAIN, THE PETITIONERS
SUBMITTED A REVISED PLANS A
LETTER INDICATING THAT THEY ARE
RESOLVED.
THEY'RE RELATIVELY MINOR
ISSUES.
HOWEVER, THEY DO NEED TO BE
ADDRESSED SO THAT THAT THAT
ISSUE DOES REMAIN UNRESOLVED.
SO UNTIL WE HAVE STAFF
CONFIRMATION COMING THROUGH DUE
BACK A LITTLE BIT LATER THIS
WEEK AGAIN IT WOULDN'T BE
BEFORE YOU TONIGHT IF THESE
WERE LARGE ISSUES THAT WOULD
SOMEHOW AFFECT THE DESIGN.
THEY DO NOT THE THIRD CONDITION
IS CAN NOW BE REMOVED THE SOLID
WASTE I HAD A I'VE HAD STAFF
CONFIRMATION THAT ALL SIDE
ISSUES HAVE BEEN ADDRESSED AND
THE FOURTH CONDITION AGAIN IS
NOT SOMETHING THAT'S THAT'S
UNUSUAL WITH A LOT OF THE PLANS
WE SEE THAT JUST BEFORE COUNCIL
IF AND WHEN COUNCIL WOULD
APPROVE IT, THEY NEED TO HAVE
THEIR APPROVAL FROM THE WATER
RESOURCES COMMISSIONER.
THAT DOESN'T SEEM TO BE AN
ISSUE AS WELL.
THEY'RE WORKING TOWARDS THEM AS
YOU PROBABLY KNOW, THERE'S
REGIONAL DETENTION BASINS THAT
COVER THE ENTIRE MALL COMPLEX.
MOST LIKELY THEY'LL NEED
OBVIOUSLY THEY NEED SOME SITE
MODIFICATIONS ON WITHIN A
DEVELOPMENT AREA.
>> HOWEVER, THOSE PONDS
PROBABLY HAVE ENOUGH CAPACITY
MAYBE NEED TO BE CLEANED OUT AT
MOST.
SO THOSE ARE THE FOUR
CONDITIONS ON THAT.
SOME OF THE AGAIN I WANTED TO
TOUCH THROUGH SOME OF THE
REMAINING STAFF COMMENTS OTHER
ONES THAT WE DIDN'T TOUCH AT
TRAFFIC.
AS YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY WITH A
PROPOSAL LIKE THIS THERE WAS
QUITE A ROBUST TRANSPORTATION
STUDY THAT WAS DONE INCLUDING
MULTI-MODAL TRANSIT STUDY.
SO AGAIN, SOME THE
RECOMMENDATION WHEN THIS
PROJECT WAS ORIGINALLY
SUBMITTED THE COMMISSIONER
PROPOSED A KIND OF AN EXTRA
TRAINLINE THAT WOULD LEAD OUT
TO STATE FROM ONE OF THE
DRIVERS I THINK IT WAS THE
CENTER DRIVE ON THE PROPOSAL
HERE.
THERE WAS AN EXTRA RIGHT TURN
LANE TRAFFIC TRANSPORTATION
STUDY CAME BACK AND SAID THAT
THAT'S NOT NECESSARY SO THAT
THAT WAS REMOVED.
PART OF THE WHAT CAME THROUGH
THE MULTIMODAL IS THE ADDITION
OF SOME OF THE BIKE LANES ON
BRIARWOOD CIRCLE.
UNFORTUNATELY, AS WAS POINTED
OUT, SIMON AND AS WELL AS
THINGS THEY DON'T CONTROL ALL
THE PARCELS IN THERE.
SO THE BIKE LANES AT THIS TIME
ARE PRETTY LIMITED TO THE
FRONTAGE THAT THAT THEY DO
CONTROL.
SO BASICALLY BRIARWOOD RIGHT
NOW HAS FIVE LANES.
IT WOULD GO ON THE FOUR WITH A
BIKE LANE ON THE ONE SIDE
SEPARATED I THINK IT'S A COUPLE
OF FEET BY SOME STRIPING IN
THAT AREA SO THAT IS A RESULT
OF THE MULTIMODAL TRIP OF STUDY
AS WELL AS AGAIN SOME OF THE
DIFFERENT SIDEWALKS THAT YOU
SEE WITHIN WITHIN THE
DEVELOPMENT.
THE AGAIN AS WAS MENTIONED, THE
MTA HAS BEEN IN NEGOTIATIONS
WITH THE PETITIONERS.
I SPOKE WITH THEM LAST WEEK.
THEY SAY, YOU KNOW, THINGS THEY
ANTICIPATE A SUCCESSFUL
RESOLUTION.
>> THEY'RE EXCITED TO BE ABLE
TO BRING MORE PEOPLE INTO THE
SITE AND HOPEFULLY HAVE AN ACT
AS YOU KNOW, A LARGER TRANSFER
POINT OR EVEN SOMETHING THAT'S
GOING TO PICK UP A LOT MORE
TRAFFIC THAT'LL HELP ALL THE
ACCESSIBILITY IN THAT AREA.
>> PARKS.
SO ONE OF THE ISSUES REMAINING
PARKS AND SO THE COMMISSIONER
AGAIN HAS BEEN WORKING WITH OUR
PARKS TO GET KIND OF SOMETHING
THAT THAT WORKS REALLY FOR
EVERYONE AT THIS POINT.
AGAIN, A DONATION HASN'T BEEN
REQUESTED AT THIS POINT.
HOWEVER, THE PETITIONER AGAIN
THE PARK STAFF HAS LOOKED AT
THE IMPROVEMENTS THAT THEY HAVE
OFFERED AS FAR AS LIKE THE
PLAZA, THE PUBLIC PLAZA.
THERE'S ALSO A GROVE AREA
THAT'S AND IT'S AN EXISTING
KIND OF GROVE OF TREES JUST
SOUTH OF THE DEVELOPMENT AREA.
>> KEEP YEAH.
>> THERE WE GO.
IT'S IN THIS AREA HERE THAT IS
OFFERED TO IMPROVE THAT AREA A
LITTLE BIT AND AND AND PARKS
THE MAIN CONCERN WITH PARKS WAS
JUST KIND OF THEY WANTED TO
HELP CREATE A REGIONAL TYPE
DESTINATION IN THIS AREA,
SOMETHING THAT THAT ALL MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC COULD REALLY FEEL
LIKE THEY COULD USE NOT JUST
NECESSARILY RESIDENTS OR MAYBE
CUSTOMERS AS FAR AS AGAIN LIKE
THE PLAZA PARKS WAS OVERALL IN
FAVOR OF THAT.
BUT SOME OF THE CONCERNS THAT
WERE NOTED AGAIN WAS HELPING TO
MAKE IT FEEL TRULY THAT IT'S
WELCOMING TO THE PUBLIC THAT
YOU DON'T NECESSARILY HAVE TO
BUY SOMETHING IN ORDER TO USE
THAT.
SO AGAIN, THESE ARE ISSUES THAT
THAT WOULDN'T STOP OBVIOUSLY AN
APPROVAL RECOMMENDATION I THINK
FROM GOING FORWARD.
BUT THESE ARE ISSUES THAT WE
WANT TO CONTINUE TO WORK ON
WITH THE PETITIONER AND IF
THOSE OTHER ITEMS THAT NEED TO
BE ADDRESSED PARKS WILL
CONTINUE TO WORK WITH THEM
TOWARDS THAT GOAL STORM WHAT
I'VE ALREADY MENTIONED
REGARDING THE THE CONDITIONAL
ON THAT WORKING WITH THE COUNTY
WATER RESOURCES COMMISSIONER
SOLWAY THAT CONDITION HAS BEEN
REMOVED FORESTRY OR LANDSCAPING
AGAIN NOTED THAT THERE ARE SOME
REVISIONS THAT ARE NEEDED
MOSTLY TO KIND OF INTERIOR
LANDSCAPE ISLANDS AND
CALCULATION'S AROUND THAT AREA
INDICATED THAT IT WAS
ADDRESSED.
>> WE JUST NEED CONFIRMATION
FROM STAFF AND SO AGAIN, REALLY
AS FAR AS PLANNING STAFF WE
LOOKED AT THIS WE'VE BEEN
WORKING WITH THE PETITIONER,
THE DEVELOPER AND THEIR WHOLE
TEAM FOR QUITE A WHILE ON THIS
AND REALLY THE WAY THAT WE
LOOKED AT IT AND AGAIN I THINK
THE DEVELOPERS ARE LOOKING AT
IS JUST ONE PIECE OF A LARGER
PUZZLE.
ALL OF STAFF FROM THE VERY
BEGINNING HERE HAS LOOKED AT
THIS FROM TRANSPORTATION HERKES
AND AGAIN OBVIOUSLY WITH
PLANNING IS SAYING, YOU KNOW,
IN GENERAL THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WE SUPPORT THE WAY THAT
THESE THAT THIS DEVELOPMENT IS
GOING AND WE WANT THIS TO BE
ONE PIECE OF A LARGER PUZZLE
THAT GOES.
SO WE'VE TRIED TO PHRASE OUR
COMMENTS IN THAT WAY TO HELP
GET IT SO THAT EVENTUALLY WHEN
THE REST OF THE MALL IF AND
WHEN WOULD REDEVELOP LIKE THIS
THIS WOULD FIT IN INTO THAT
QUITE NICELY EXCLUDING
SIDEWALKS AND AGAIN OBVIOUSLY
THE TRANSPORTATION IMPACT AND
IMPACT OF TRANSPORTATION
CHANGES TO BRIARWOOD CIRCLE
WOULD IDEALLY EXTEND ALL AROUND
THE ENTIRE BRIARWOOD MALL AND
IT'S AS I'VE NOTED IN MY STAFF
REPORT AS WELL WITH ONE OF OUR
MOST RECENT SUBAREA PLANS SOUTH
STATE SOUTH STATE STREET
CORRIDOR PLAN.
THIS ALIGNS PRETTY MUCH EXACTLY
WHAT THAT GOAL OF RE TAKING
PARKING AND REZONING TO
SOMETHING THAT'S NOT PARKING
AND PUTTING DEVELOPMENT WHERE
THERE IS A LOT OF PARKING.
>> SO WITH THAT I THINK THAT
WRAPS UP MY STAFF COMMENTS AND
LIKE I SAID, OBVIOUSLY STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF THIS
NOTING THAT THOSE ARE THE THREE
CONDITIONS THAT REMAIN.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
SO WHEN I MOVE TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED EXCUSE ME IT'S PLAN AT
NINE HUNDRED BRIARWOOD CIRCLE.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR LINE OF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE IF VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER A MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME SEEING NO ONE?
MR. LEONARD, IS THERE ANYBODY
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO HANDS IS DESIRING
TO ADDRESS THE QUESTION AT THIS
TIME.
ALL RIGHT THEN I WILL READ THE
MOTION.
I'M GOING TO READ THE THREE
MOTIONS AND WE'RE GOING TO TAKE
THEM TOGETHER UNLESS THERE'S
ANYBODY OPPOSED TO THAT.
OK, THAT'S THE PLAN.
AND JUST TO CONFIRM MR. AND MR.
KORSKI, I'M GOING TO READ THE
FIRST MOTION WITH ONLY THREE
CONDITIONAL STATEMENTS.
YEAH, OK.
ALL RIGHT.
THE UNIVERSITY PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE NINE HUNDRED BRIARWOOD SITE
PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
CONDITIONAL UPON ONE APPROVAL
OF LAND TRANSFER WITH THE
ADJACENT MACEY'S PARCEL SEVEN
BRIARWOOD TO APPROVAL
OF LANDSCAPING ISSUES
IDENTIFIED IN REVIEW DATED NINE
EIGHTEEN TWENTY TWENTY THREE
AND THREE APPROVAL FROM THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY WATER
RESOURCES COMMISSION SECOND
MOTION READS THE ENTIRE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVE THE NINE HUNDRED
BRIARWOOD REZONING FROM PARKING
TO CITY TO BE COMMERCIAL AND
THE THIRD MOTION READS THE ANN
ARBOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVES THE NINE HUNDRED
BRIARWOOD SITE PLAN LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION THAT REMOVES THE
INFILTRATION LANDSCAPE.
HYLANDER ACQUIREMENT BECAUSE
THE SOILS AT THE SUBJECT
LOCATION WILL NOT INFILTRATE
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER SUBASIC
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH WE ARE
IN DISCUSSION IS ANYBODY WHO
WOULD LIKE TO BEGIN OUR
CONVERSATION.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT, THANK YOU.
>> UM, I'M VERY EXCITED ABOUT
THIS PROJECT.
I'VE BEEN WAITING FOR SOMETHING
TO HAPPEN AT BRIARWOOD AND I
WAS HOPING I FEEL LIKE THERE'S
THIS ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM THAT
NOBODY'S BROUGHT UP.
I READ IN THE STAFF REPORT ALL
ELECTRIC RESIDENTIAL BUILDING.
>> I WANT TO HEAR MORE ABOUT
YOUR COMMITMENT TO
SUSTAINABILITY.
YOU OBVIOUSLY KNOW THE CITY'S
CLIMATE GOALS.
I JUST WANTED TO GIVE YOU AN
OPPORTUNITY TO EXPAND ON THAT.
>> APPRECIATE THE TIME I WENT
OFF ON ME SO I THOUGHT THIS
WOULD COME UP IN CONVERSATION.
SO THANKS FOR BRINGING YOU KNOW
US.
YES, OUR OUR INTENT IS ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT ELECTRIFIED
BUILDING WORKING CLOSELY WITH
DTG TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY HAVE
CAPACITY ON THEIR SIDE BUT
THAT'S ABSOLUTELY OUR PLAN.
WE HAVE SELECTED SOME VAISSE
EQUIPMENT THAT IS THAT'S MORE
EFFICIENT THAN THAN AVERAGE I
WOULD SAY FOR THIS PRODUCT TYPE
AROUND THE COUNTRY IN OUR
EXPERIENCE, YOU KNOW, OUR FIRM
AS WELL AS SIMON VERY FOCUSED
ON SUSTAINABILITY AND
CARBON REDUCTION.
SO I THINK IT'S A GREAT FIT AND
VERY EXCITING TO BE WORKING
HERE IN A IN AN ENVIRONMENT
WHERE IT'S EMBRACED AND YOU'RE
LOOKING FOR AND PUSHING FOR IT
SOMETIMES IT'S HARDER TO DO
THAT IF IT'S NOT IF IT'S NOT
SOMETHING THAT'S DESIRED BY THE
MUNICIPALITY.
SO REALLY APPRECIATE THAT WE
ARE ALSO EVALUATING SOLAR AND
GEOTHERMAL JUST THE RENEWABLES
TO TRY TO BRING THAT REDUCTION
OF OF DEMAND DOWN TO HELP OUT
BECAUSE WE KNOW IT'S GOING TO
BE A STRUGGLE TO GET ALL THE
POWER THAT WE NEED FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT AND THEN WE HAVE
OBVIOUSLY THE REQUIRED 10
PERCENT EV CHARGING STATIONS
THAT ARE ARE THERE AND THEN
ANOTHER 90 PERCENT CAPACITY
BASICALLY IN THE PANELS AND THE
CONDUITS JUST THE PATHWAY SO
THAT FOR FUTURE EXPANSION WE
CAN WE CAN BRING OUT ON LINE.
SO THAT'S ANY QUESTIONS ON
THAT?
>> IT'S AWESOME.
THANK YOU.
IT'S JUST NICE TO HAVE HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED YOU HAVE GREAT.
WHY IS THERE SO MUCH PARKING
THERE LIKE YOU KNOW A LOT
OF DISCUSSION ABOUT INCREASING
MULTIMODALITY I UNDERSTAND LIKE
THE PARKING IS WRAPPED MAYBE
THIS IS MORE FOR YOU THERE'S
STILL SO MUCH PARKING AND I
KNOW THERE'S SO MUCH PARKING SO
ALREADY AT BRIARWOOD AND JUST
YEAH IT'S A QUESTION PARKING ON
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY.
YEAH.
SO THAT'S A JOHN YEAH.
>> YEAH.
A REQUIREMENT OF THE THE
GROCERY STORE THEY NEEDED THREE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY PARKING
SPACES THAT WAS THE REQUISITE
NUMBER THERE'S 354 AND THAT
INCLUDES THE EAVES AND
HANDICAP'S BUT THE TOTAL IS 350
SO THAT WAS OUR PARAMETER
REALLY THE ENTIRE SITE PLAN HAS
BEEN DRIVEN BY THE FOOTPRINT
OF THE GROCERY STORE SO THAT
THAT'S THAT'S REALLY THE REASON
FOR THOSE SPACES.
>> I I'M SUPER EXCITED THAT
THERE'S A GROCERY STORE COMING
IN.
I'M GLAD YOU HAVE THEM TO
IDENTIFY IT AND LIKE DYING TO
KNOW WHO IT IS YOU CAN TELL ME
AFTER RIGHT.
OK THAT'S THAT'S JUST SO MUCH
PARKING WHEN LIKE YOU KNOW WE
KNOW LIKE THE REST THERE'S SO
MUCH PARKING THAT EXISTS
ALREADY AND THAT WAS REALLY
INTERESTING.
I HAD NO IDEA THAT LIKE MACY'S
ON THEIR OWN PATHI SORT OF JUST
ASSUMED LIKE SIMON OWNED
EVERYTHING.
>> IT'S THE SIMON PROPERTY, THE
OTHER INTERESTING THING IS
WHILE THE CITY'S NO LONGER HAVE
MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS,
WE HAVE OLD AND STILL IN PLACE
AGREEMENTS WITH AMONG AND
BETWEEN THE ANCHORS THAT WE
WILL CONTRACTUALLY HAVE TO
MAINTAIN A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF PARKING SPACES RATIO PER
THOUSAND FEET OF JULIE.
WE ACTUALLY IN THE PROCESS
OF THIS GOT EVERYONE TO REDUCE
THAT TOTAL SO IT BENEFITS US
BECAUSE YOU KNOW WE CAN DO THIS
DEVELOPMENT IN THE FUTURE.
IT'LL BENEFIT THEM WHEN THEY GO
IF AND WHEN THEY GO TO WHEN
THEY GO TO REDEVELOP THEY'LL
CONTRACTUAL WHERE THEY'LL HAVE
A LESSER REQUIREMENT FOR THAT
TO HAVE THERE BEEN
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT LIKE
REDEVELOPING ANY OF THE OTHER
PARCELS?
>> I WOULD JUST SAY GENERALLY
JUST KNOWING THESE ANCHORS
MACY'S IN OTHER PLACES NOT AT
THIS MARKET BUT OTHER PLACES
THEY ARE MONOTYPE I THEIR REAL
ESTATE WHETHER THEY ARE LEANING
INTO THEIR LEANING INTO
RESIDENTIAL AS WELL AND OFFICE
DEPENDING ON THE MARKET FUND MA
IS A VERY TRADITIONAL RETAILER
.
I YOU KNOW I APPROACH THEM HEY
YOU KNOW HOW ABOUT YOU CAN
REDUCE YOUR PARKING RATIO?
THEY'RE LIKE WE'RE MERCHANTS.
WE LOVE OUR PARKING AND WE WANT
PEOPLE TO COME IN AND HAVE
PLENTY OF PARKING COME IN AND
SHOP.
PENNEY'S IS SOMEWHERE IN
BETWEEN SO IT'S NOT WITHIN WITH
YOU KNOW IT'S NOT IT'S NOT
EVENTUALLY IT CAN HAPPEN.
IT'S IT'S GOING TO HAPPEN OVER
TIME.
>> YEAH.
I MEAN THIS TO ME IS LIKE THE
IDEAL SPACE TO CONTINUE WHAT
YOU'VE PROPOSED HERE THROUGHOUT
THE SITE.
I AM VERY FAMILIAR WITH THE
DOMAIN PROJECT IN AUSTIN WHEN I
LIVED THERE SO EXCITED I LIKE
ENVISIONED LIKE A DOMAIN LIKE
ON THE SITE OPPOSITE TO SCRAPE
UP MORE.
>> BUT I FEEL LIKE THIS IS
GETTING US CLOSER TO SOMETHING
LIKE THAT WHICH IS REALLY
EXCITING.
IT'S REALLY TOUGH WHEN YOU HAVE
A FIFTY YEAR OLD MOLE WITH A
REGIONAL MOLE FOOTPRINT AND
IT'S VERY HARD TO YEAH.
A LOT OF CITIES MAYBE YOU
INCLUDED WELL OR HIGHER URBAN
PLANNERS AND THEY'LL SAY HEY
LET'S CREATE A CITYSCAPE, KNOCK
THEM ALL DOWN AND YOU KNOW, CUT
IT UP INTO BLOCKS WHICH IS THE
IDEAL.
BUT YOU KNOW, WE'VE GOT THIS
THIS MALL THAT YOU KNOW, IT'S
THERE.
SO WE HAVE TO KIND OF DEAL WITH
THE THE BASELINE WE HAVE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT WOULD TAKE
TO EXPAND THE BIKE LANE OFF
OF YOUR PROPERTY TO LIKE WITH
THE OTHER I ASSUME THE OTHER
PROPERTY OWNERS WOULD HAVE TO
WANT TO I MEAN THAT'S THE
PROBLEM IS THAT THERE'S TWENTY
TWO PROPERTY OWNERS AROUND THE
RING ROAD IN ADDITION TO THE
THE THE OWNERS ON THE MALL SITE
AND WE YOU KNOW, WE DON'T
CONSENT AND APPROVAL AND WE
JUST WE CAN'T GUARANTEE THAT
KEEP PUSHING.
I THOUGHT I THING I'LL SAY FOR
NOW I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT.
I MEAN I'D LIKE TO THE
RENDERING OF YOUR PLAZA AREA I
DON'T I FEEL LIKE THE MALL
ALREADY FEELS PUBLIC.
I'VE NEVER FELT LIKE I HAVE TO
GO BUY SOMETHING JUST LIKE I'VE
TAKEN MY KIDS TO THE ALL BEFORE
JUST TO PLAY IN THAT LITTLE
PLAY AREA.
SO LIKE I MEAN THAT WOULD BE
COOL REALLY IF YOU WANT TO DO
THAT.
BUT OTHERWISE LIKE I'M A LITTLE
CONFUSED BY PARK'S COMMENTS
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE THAT WILL
SORT OF INHERENTLY STILL FEEL
LIKE A PUBLIC SPACE.
>> YEAH, I MEAN EVENTUALLY NOT
PART OF THIS PROJECT BUT WHEN
WE TAKE THE SEARS BUILDING DOWN
THAT'LL LEAVE A WALL OF THE
MALL THAT RIGHT NOW BUT THE
MALL OWNER OF WHICH WE ARE PART
IS YOU KNOW, WITH THIS IN MIND
CONSIDERING YOU KNOW, CREATING
OUTWARD FACING SPACES SO YOU
COULD HAVE PATIOS AND OTHER
THINGS OUT IN WHICH FURTHER AT
THE PLAZA WE'VE DONE WE'VE DONE
THESE GREEN SPACES, OTHER
PLACES AND THEY THEY'RE WELL
RECEIVED.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF YOU NOTICED
BUT WE TRIED TO PUT UP
UNIVERSITY.
YEAH.
WE GET A LITTLE CREDIT FOR THAT
ALTHOUGH I THOUGHT IF I DIDN'T
IT DIDN'T CONNECT.
I DIDN'T LICENSE THAT.
BUT I MEAN, YOU KNOW, A BIG
VIDEO SCREEN ON THAT WALL WOULD
BE COOL.
YOU COULD HAVE MOVIE NIGHT.
I MEAN YOU COULD JUST DO A LOT
OF DIFFERENT THINGS.
YEAH, WE JUST BUILT ONE
OF THESE AND BUCKHEAD A SUBURB
OF ATLANTA AND THEY'VE GOT A
WHERE THEY COME AND DO THAT AND
JUST YOU KNOW, A LOT
OF DIFFERENT THINGS.
I MEAN MALLS TURNING INTO MORE
REGIONAL DESTINATIONS.
I THINK IT'S SORT OF THE
DIRECTION THAT THEY SHOULD BE
GOING LIKE I CAN SEE THIS BEING
WITH THIS PARTIAL REDEVELOPMENT
AND THEN EVEN LOOKING MORE
FORWARD.
SO THANK YOU.
I HAVE MR. LEONARD ASK A FOLLOW
UP QUESTION ON THAT THAT PLAZA
SPACE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT MALL
DOES NOW IS THAT IT'S ALWAYS
BEING CREATIVE AND TRYING TO
THINK ABOUT THE USE OF THAT
PARKING LOT EVEN IN ITS CURRENT
CONFIGURATION.
>> DO YOU ENVISION SOME OF THAT
SORT OF PROGRAMING THAT HAPPENS
NOW IN THE PARKING LOT BEING
FOCUSED MORE INTO THAT PLAZA OR
DO YOU THINK BOTH OR THAT WILL
CONTINUE IN SORT OF THE PARKING
AREAS OR DON'T KNOW?
>> YEAH, I DON'T KNOW AT THIS
POINT.
BUT THIS IS JUST THIS OPENS UP
MORE OPPORTUNITIES WHERE
SOMEBODY MIGHT NOT WANT TO HAVE
A PROGRAM, YOU KNOW, YOGA IN
THE PLAZA.
>> IT WOULD BE BETTER THAN YOGA
IN THE PARKING LOT.
SO THANKS MICHELLE WEATHERBEE
SO FIVE YEARS AGO I WAS ON
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WE
VOTED FOR A MAGIC CARPET RUG
TENT IN THE PARKING LOT AND AT
THAT TIME I THINK WE ALL WERE
ENVISIONING WOULDN'T IT BE
GREAT IF THERE WERE HOUSING AND
GROCERY STORES AND BIKE PARKING
AND SO IT'S VERY EXCITING TO
SEE THAT THERE ACTUALLY IS
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF COMMENTS BUT
IN GENERAL SUPEROXIDE GOING TO
SEE THIS IF IT IS HOPEFULLY
STEP ONE OF A NEW VISION FOR
THE MALL AREA.
ONE THING THAT I DID NOTICE IS
THERE IS A LOT OF CAR PARKING
AND NOT VERY MUCH BIKE PARKING
AND ONE OF THE THINGS IF YOU
TALK ABOUT IT BEING A
MULTIMODAL SPACE, IT IS A SUPER
EASY STRAIGHT SHOT DOWN FROM
DOWNTOWN DOWN STATE STREET
THERE ARE BIKE PATHS, ELECTRIC
ELECTRIC BIKES, BIKES ARE GOING
TO MAKE THIS A I KNOW FOUR
MINUTE TRIP OR FIVE MINUTE
TRIP.
IT IS VERY QUICK AND IT JUST
SEEMS LIKE THERE'S MAYBE A
LITTLE BIT OF A DISCONNECT
THERE OF HEY, WE WANT LOTS
OF PARKING AND AGAIN YOU HAVE
LOTS OF OWNERSHIP AND BUT THERE
THERE DOESN'T SEEM TO BE A LOT
OF BIKE PARKING RELATIVE TO
KIND OF WHO MIGHT COME IN
BECAUSE PEOPLE DO GROCERY SHOP
ON BIKES AND MORE AND MORE
ESPECIALLY WITH THE BIKES
THERE'S A SLIDE I DON'T KNOW IF
YOU CAN FIND IT BUT WE'VE WE
ARE ADDING TO THE REDEVELOPMENT
AREA.
I THINK WE'RE ADDING A LOT
OF BIKE RACKS AND A LOT
OF PARKING SPACE.
I MEAN WHAT I CONSIDER A LOT
IT'S NOT YOU MAY NOT CONSIDER A
LOT SO NOW WE'VE GOT YOU PAST I
THINK I TESTED I'VE HAD ONE JOB
.
I THINK IT'S THE NEXT ONE.
THERE'S BLUE BUT THERE YOU GO
HAVE A BLUE SQUARE.
OKAY, THERE YOU GO.
THERE YOU CAN SEE I THINK ON
ONE OF THE SLIDES.
OH YOU GOT THE NUMBERS.
YEAH, WE GOT WE'VE GOT ON
ANOTHER SLIDE IT'S NUMBER ONE
MORE OH HERE MAYBE MATT I MEAN
MR. COSBY SO WE'VE GOT IS THIS
FOR WHAT IS A SIX SO THAT'S
TWENTY EIGHT SO WE WERE TWENTY
OK WE HAVE TWENTY EIGHT
COVER TWENTY BIKES SPACES IN
SOCIETY AND THEN WHAT ABOUT
SITE B SITE.
THESE GOT SEVENTY TO THIRTY
EIGHT SPACES COVERED THIRTY SIX
YEAH COVERED AND I KNOW YOU
HAVE WHAT THE REQUIREMENT IS OK
SO YOU'RE JUST SAYING HEY I'M
SAYING HEY GOT IT.
THINGS ARE CHANGING AND THEY'RE
CHANGING QUICKLY AND IF YOU ARE
GOING TO BE REALLY PROMOTING
THAT SORT OF THING THEN
ESPECIALLY IN THE IN THE RETAIL
I MEAN ESPECIALLY IN THE
RESIDENTIAL YOU KNOW THIRTY SIX
CLASS SPACES FOR THE
RESIDENTIAL IS NOT A LOT SO I'D
SAY THE
NICE THING WE HAVE THE
FLEXIBILITY WITH THE GARAGE
THERE TO CAPTURE ADDITIONAL
SPACE VERY EASILY.
>> RIGHT.
LIKE IF ONE ONE LEVEL TURNS
INTO BIKE PARKING THEN HEY AND
YOU CAN SCALE IT RIGHT I MEAN
JUST TO MEET THE DEMAND AND AS
THAT DEMAND CHANGES SHIFTS SO
THAT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT YOU
PANIC ABOUT THAT YEAH.
>> DAY TO HEY WE'VE GOT ONE
HUNDRED BIKES AND WE GOT TO
FIGHT SO YOU BUILD A WALL AND
YOU CLOSE OFF SPACES OF PARKING
AND THEN YOU'VE GOT AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PARK BIKE.
SO YOU KNOW OUR OUR JOB IS TO
KEEP RESIDENTS HAPPY AND TO
MEET THEIR NEEDS AND YOU KNOW
WHAT THEY SAY GOES OK, WE'LL
GET IT DONE.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
ONE THING I'D JUST NOTE SORRY I
IN MY SUMMARY IT DOES SAY
THIRTY SIX BUT IT'S ACTUALLY I
DIDN'T PICK UP PROPERLY FROM
THAT THE MAIN REPORTER'S THIRTY
SIX FOR THE RESIDENTIAL THIRTY
SIX CLASS AND THIRTY SIX CLASSY
STILL AGAIN I UNDERSTAND THE
CONCERN ABOUT MORE BUT THERE
WERE THIRTY SIX OF BOTH SO THE
SUMMARY WAS INCORRECT BUT IN
THE COMPARISON CHART THAT'S
CORRECT
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY
DID YOU HAVE MORE COMMENTS HERE
THAN OK ANYBODY ELSE
COMMISSIONER I'M GOING TO
REITERATE THIS IS THIS IS GREAT
TO SEE.
THIS IS GREAT PROGRESS ON A
SITE.
SO MAYBE JUST OUT OF CURIOSITY
A COUPLE OF THINGS INFILTRATION
WISE I LIKE IT'S CLAY OR JUST
THE SOILS THAT WE CAN'T FOR THE
GROCER PARKING WOULD THEY BE
AMENABLE TO COVERED PARKING IF
YOU PLAN FOR FOUNDATIONS FOR
BUILDINGS ABOVE IN THE FUTURE?
>> I'M JUST THINKING OF FUTURE.
>> YEAH.
YOU KNOW THAT'S NOT BEEN TALKED
ABOUT OR CONSIDERED BUT JUST SO
YOU UNDERSTAND ON THE ON THE
LARGE FORMAT RETAILER IN THE
GROCER WE ARE BASICALLY
PROVIDING THE UTILITIES THE PAD
AND GIVING THEM AN ENGINEER PAD
AND THEY'RE GOING TO BUILD
THEIR BUT WE ALSO WE HAVE MADE
THEM AWARE OF THE YOU KNOW,
YOUR CARBON NEUTRALITY GOALS
AND HOPEFULLY THEY'LL LEAN INTO
THOSE SO THEY HAVE CONTROL
OF THE PARK THEY'VE BEEN TO.
>> IT'S PART OF OK.
YEAH I MEAN WE BASICALLY WE'VE
WE GAVE THEM A PARKING SPACES
HAVE TO BE SO WIDE SO LONG, SO
MANY HANDICAPPED AND THEN THEY
CLEARED IN THE PRE DEVELOPMENT
WORK AND THEN YOU HAND OFF A
YOU KNOW AND EVEN PARTICIPATE.
>> OK SO THAT'S HELPFUL BUT I
CAN SEE THIS RIGHT LIKE MOVING
AROUND THE SITE IN ANY
INCREMENTAL BIT AND I SEE I, I
SEE THE PARKING AS THIS IS STEP
ONE AND IF WE REPEAT THIS
PATTERN WITH TWENTY PERCENT
LESS EVERY TIME WE'VE MADE HUGE
MOVES MY EXPERIENCE IN
RENOVATING SPACES DOWNTOWN
THINGS THAT WE DID WE PLAYED
MUSICAL CHAIRS WITH OFFICE
SPACE BACK WHEN THAT WAS REALLY
USED BUT THIS WAS A THRESHOLD
THAT WE ACTUALLY SAW SOME
OFFICERS MOVE TO DO TEMPORARY
LEASES WHILE THEY MOVED OUT
OF THEIR DOWNTOWN SPACES AND SO
THIS IS A SWEET SPOT THRESHOLD
THAT PEOPLE BELIEVE THAT THEY
CAN ACCESS DOWNTOWN, REACH
AMENITIES AND STILL FEEL
CONNECTED TO THE CITY.
SO IT'S GREAT TO SEE MORE
PLACES TO LIVE, YOU KNOW,
GATHER IN THIS PLACE WHICH I
CAN SEE AS BEING LIKE A REALLY
GREAT LAUNCHING POINT NOT JUST
FOR A PARK AND RIDE FOR THE BUS
BUT FOR ACTUAL JUST MOVING
THROUGH THE CITY IN DIFFERENT
WAYS WHICH IS GREAT.
THAT'S YEAH, I'M I'M HAPPY TO
SEE THIS PROJECT AND IT'S IT'S
GREAT TO START TO SEE ONE STEP
IN THE MANY STEPS HOPEFULLY BUT
UNDERSTAND THAT THERE'S MANY
PLAYERS INVOLVED.
BUT IT'S GREAT TO FOR YOU TO
LEAD THE CONVERSATION.
APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
>> YEAH.
COMMISSIONER, I WANT TO ADD TO
THE CHORUS OF WOW.
YEAH.
IT'S SO GREAT TO UNPACK THE
PARKING LOT AND PUT IN SOME
GRASS AND I WANTED TO PICK UP
ON ANOTHER ASPECT OF YOUR
SUSTAINABILITY WHICH IS YOUR
PROPOSAL TO DIVERT 90 PERCENT
OF YOUR CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS OR
WHAT CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS I
SHOULD SAY FROM THE DISMANTLING
FROM LANDFILLS.
AND I JUST WONDERED DO YOU KNOW
WHERE YOU'RE GOING TO TAKE
THINGS AND ONLY BECAUSE I'M
CURIOUS ABOUT THE MARKET
CAPACITY SO I'D LOVE TO HEAR
MORE ABOUT WHERE YOU FIND IT
SEEMS LIKE THERE'S A LOT
OF PLACES THAT WON'T TAKE AND
AND CRUSHED ASPHALT BUT THERE
ARE OTHER THINGS AND YOU
MENTIONED REUSE AND I'D BE JUST
REALLY DELIGHTED TO HEAR HOW
THAT GOES AND WHAT YOU FIND
BECAUSE WE WOULD LIKE TO WE
WOULD LIKE TO BE ABLE TO MAKE
THAT MORE OF A NORM IN THE CITY
AND SO WE NEED TO KNOW WHAT THE
ECOSYSTEM IS FOR IT.
SO THANK YOU.
>> UM, SO I WILL ALSO ECHO
SUPPORT OF THE PROJECT AND UM
BUT I HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUESTIONS SO I NOTICED IN
THE UH REPORT FROM THE UH
CITIZEN OR RESIDENT
PARTICIPATION MEETING THAT
THERE WAS A QUESTION ABOUT
AFFORDABLE UNITS AND MAYBE A
RESPONSE THAT INDICATED I THINK
THE QUOTE IS WE WILL HAVE SOME
AFFORDABLE UNITS AND I JUST
WONDERED IF YOU COULD PROVIDE
ANY DETAIL ON THAT BECAUSE I
DON'T SEE ANYTHING ABOUT THAT
ANYWHERE ELSE IN THE U.S. I CAN
ADDRESS THAT.
WE HAD PLANNED INITIALLY AT THE
BEGINNING FOR THREE PERCENT
OF THE UNITS TO BE ATTAINABLE
AS WE KIND OF MOVED THROUGH THE
PROCESS AND HAD SOME SOME
MEETINGS WITH FOLKS FROM THE
CITY INCLUDING THE HOUSING
AUTHORITY KNOWING THAT WE WERE
REALLY TRYING TO PUSH THE
ENVELOPE ON SUSTAINABLE
OPPORTUNITIES, THE THE THE
MARKET RATE, THE NEED FOR
MARKET RATE HOUSING AND WE WERE
TOLD WAS REALLY A GREATER
PRIORITY THAN THAN THE
ATTAINABLE PIECE WITH THE TABLE
PIECE BEING THREE PERCENT.
THEY SAID REALLY LET'S MONETT
YOU MAKE IT ONE PERCENT MARKET
RATE AND FOCUS ON SUSTAINABLE.
SO THAT'S THAT'S THE DIRECTION
THAT WE'VE WE'VE TAKEN.
>> OKAY SO CURRENTLY ALL THREE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY FOUR UNITS
ARE MARKET RATE OK AND THEN
MOVING TO SUSTAINABILITY CAN
YOU SAY A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT
WHERE YOU ARE IN TERMS
OF EXPLORING GEOTHERMAL AND
SOLAR?
>> YEAH WE HAVE THIRD PARTY
CONSULTANTS THAT WE'RE WORKING
WITH JUST DOING THE TECHNICAL
DIALYSIS AND UNDERSTANDING WHAT
ARE WHAT'S THE LOAD
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PROPERTY.
WHAT LOADS CAN WE GET FROM
SOLAR STUDYING GEOTHERMAL IN
THIS AREA AND TRYING TO
EXTRAPOLATE JUST SOME OTHER
GEOTHERMAL WELLS I THINK THAT
HAVE BEEN DUG TO SEE, YOU KNOW,
WHAT TYPE OF CAPACITY MIGHT WE
HAVE AND THEN, YOU KNOW,
ANALYZING JUST THE FINANCIAL
SIDE TO TRY AND MAKE SURE
OBVIOUSLY THERE'S A PRETTY
SIZABLE UPFRONT INVESTMENT IN
GEOTHERMAL AND SO THERE ARE
FIRMS THAT WILL MAKE THAT
UPFRONT INVESTMENT AND THEN
SORT OF AMORTIZE THOSE COSTS
OVER TIME FOR THE PROPERTY AND
WE'RE JUST IN THE MIDDLE
OF THOSE CONVERSATIONS AND
THOSE VALUATIONS TO SEE NOT
ONLY WHAT IS THE GEOTHERMAL
WELL IN EQUIPMENT AND WHAT DOES
IT DO TO TO EFFICIENCY BUT THEN
WHAT'S THE DOWN THERE'S ALSO
MECHANICAL CHANGES THAT ARE
REQUIRED WITHIN THE BUILDING TO
ACCOMMODATE THAT WATER SOURCE
ALSO.
SO IT'S JUST SORT OF AN
ITERATIVE PROCESS TO REALLY
EVALUATE WITH OUR MLP ENGINEER
AND THOSE THIRD THIRD PARTY
CONSULTANTS TO JUST MAKE SURE
THAT WE UNDERSTAND WHAT THE
IMPLICATIONS ARE FROM A
SCHEDULE COST AND YOU KNOW, AN
EFFICIENCY STANDPOINT.
>> HAVE YOU DONE GEOTHERMAL IN
ANY OF YOUR OTHER PROJECTS?
YEAH, WE'VE DONE GEOTHERMAL IN
OTHER PARTS OF THE COUNTRY WAS
AN OFFICE PROJECT ACTUALLY IN
NEW YORK AND A RETROFIT
SITUATION AND THERE'S SOME SOME
OTHERS I THINK OUT WEST AS
WELL.
BUT IT WOULD BE THE FIRST OUR
MIDWEST AND THEN WHAT ABOUT
SOLAR ROOFTOP SOLAR DOES THAT
ON THE TABLE?
>> YES.
SO YEAH, WE'RE LOOKING AT SOLAR
ARRAYS AND AND JUST HOW MANY
FIT ALONG WITH THE MECHANICAL
EQUIPMENT THAT'S ON THE ROOF AS
WELL.
>> YEAH, I WOULD IMAGINE IT'LL
BE HARDER FOR SOMETHING LIKE A
SHIRT PERHAPS BUT I GUESS I I
MEAN SO I APPRECIATE THE
SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVE YOU
MENTIONED THE WASTE STREAM AND
THE THE THINGS LIKE SOLAR AND
GEOTHERMAL ARE IN THERE BUT I
JUST WANT MAYBE CALL OUR
ATTENTION TO THE FACT THAT NONE
OF THAT IS IN THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT.
SO I THINK THE ONLY THING I
DON'T EVEN KNOW IF THE
ELECTRIFICATION IS IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT I TRY TO
SEARCH FOR THE WORD ELECTRIC
AGAIN.
I DID I DIDN'T FIND IT IN
THERE.
>> IT'S NOT IN THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT.
WE CAN ADD THAT TO DEVELOP AN
AGREEMENT IF THAT'S THE REQUEST
OF I JUST WANT TO YEAH.
>> MAYBE JUST WANNA PUT ON A
TABLE FIRST I'D WANT TO MAKE A
MOTION YET BUT JUST LIKE UH I
THINK THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS
THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THAT
WE'RE EXCITED ABOUT THE PROJECT
THAT ARE LOOSE LOOSELY PROPOSED
BUT MAYBE SHOW UP AND ONE
OF THOSE THAT I'M CURIOUS ABOUT
IS THE LIKE PART OF THE
PIPELINE APPROVAL IS ALSO
THINKING ABOUT THE BUILDING
FORM.
I MEAN I KNOW THAT EVERYTHING'S
IN SCHEMATIC DESIGN BUT IT
SEEMS TO BE A HUGE DISCREPANCY
BETWEEN THE RENDERING OF THE
GROCERY STORE THAT'S IN THE
SITE PLAN PACKETT AND THE
RENDERED IMAGE OF THE GROCERY
STORE THAT WE SEE IN THIS
PRESENTATION AND I THINK IT
ACTUALLY SHOWS UP IN THE SITE
PLAN.
>> IT DOES UH, SO THERE'S ONE
THAT IN THE SITE PLAN OFFICIALS
PLAN DOCUMENTS WE SEE EXISTING
AND PROPOSED PROSPECTIVE SITE
BUILDS THE ONE THAT SHOWS UP IN
THIS PRESENTATION.
>> IT'S THE KIND OF ONE THE
BEFORE AND AFTER AND IN THAT
THE STORE LOOKS TOTALLY
DIFFERENT THAN IT DOES IN THE
LATER IN THE SITE PLAN WHICH IS
ACTUALLY IT MIGHT EVEN LOOK
DIFFERENT THAN THIS ONE AND
LIKE THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
WE'RE ACTUALLY VOTING ON OR
APPROVING TO SOME DEGREE LIKE
IT SAYS IN THE DEVELOPMENT YOU
HAVE TO BUILD IT TO LOOK LIKE
THIS WITHOUT SUBSTANTIVE
CHANGE.
SO I DON'T I JUST WANT SOME
CLARIFICATION ON WHAT IT IS
WE'RE SAYING YES TO THAT MIGHT
BE A QUESTION FOR STAFF AS MUCH
AS FOR YOU.
>> YEAH, I'M NOT 100 PERCENT
SURE OF WHAT CHANGES I MEAN THE
FOOTPRINT THAT'S WHAT'S
INCLUDED IN THE SITE PLAN IS
THAT'S YOUR PETITION.
SO ANY RENDERINGS THAT ARE
BEING SHOWN IN THIS POWERPOINT
ARE IF THEY ARE DISTINCT OR
DIFFERENT IT WOULDN'T BE PART
OF THAT SITE PLAN PACKAGE THAT
YOU WOULD IF THERE ARE TWO
RENDERINGS IN THE SITE PLAN
THAT ARE DIFFERENT, WE SHOULD
PROBABLY CLEAN THAT UP THEN.
I MEAN I CAN CALL EVERYONE'S
ATTENTION TO PAGE EIGHT OF THE
PDF VS. PAGE TWENTY FIVE SIXTY
MAYBE NOT EIGHT SORRY OR FOUR
AND SIXTY PAGE OH MAYBE MY
PATENTS ARE A TWENTY THREE.
YEAH TWENTY FIVE IS A RENDERING
SORRY.
>> TWENTY THREE IS THE
ELEVATION.
>> I BRING IT UP JUST BECAUSE
ONE IS LIKE MUCH NICER THAN THE
OTHER.
I MEAN THE RENDERINGS ARE
CONCEPT PLANS I WOULD I WOULD
SAY FOR THE THE ELEVATIONS AT
LEAST SPEAKING FOR THE THE
LARGE FORMAT RETAILER AND THE
GROCER THOSE ARE THEIR
ELEVATIONS THAT THEY PLAN ON
BUILDING AND I KNOW FOR THE
ELEVATIONS YOU'RE IN YOU'RE
THROUGH SCHEMATIC DESIGN.
DO THESE RENDERINGS REPRESENT
SCHEMATIC DESIGN?
>> I THINK THAT'S RIGHT.
THEY CAME FROM A RESCUE PACKAGE
.
>> YEAH, I DON'T SEE ANY I
DON'T SEE THE DISCREPANCY ON
THE RESIDENTIAL PORTION.
THAT'S THE RETAIL SIDE.
>> OK, SO WE SHOULD TAKE THE
ARAB NATIONS AS THE PROPOSAL.
>> YEAH, THE FOOTPRINT IS
SO
THE FOOTPRINT IS ESSENTIALLY
THE SAME, BUT I UNDERSTAND THE
CONCERN REGARDING THE OH I SEE
THAT I MEAN BETWEEN THE
RENDERINGS WHICH ARE CONCERT
LIKE THE RENDERING OF THE
OF THE GREEN SPACE, YOU KNOW,
WE'RE GOING TO FIGURE OUT HOW
THAT'S PROGRAMED IF WE REALLY
PUT FOOD TRUCKS IN THERE.
BUT THE ELEVATIONS YOU KNOW,
THE MARKETS IT'S IT'S A TWO
LEVEL BUILDING IN THE SENSE
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE A
MEZZANINE UPSTAIRS WHERE THEY
HAVE A WINE BAR AND THEY HAVE
ACTUALLY WINDOWS LOOKING OUT
OVER TO THE GREEN SPACE.
PRETTY COOL IF YOU WANT TO GO
HAVE A GLASS OF WINE AT THE
GROCERY AND AND THEN PEOPLE DO
THESE DAYS AND THEN AGAIN THE
THE LARGE FORMAT RETAILER THAT
IT'S TO LEVEL AND THAT'S THE
YOU KNOW, THAT IS ELEVATION
FROM SO THAT THE CONCEPT
RENDERINGS MIGHT BE A LITTLE
BIT MAY TAKE A LITTLE BIT
OF LIBERTY BUT YEAH THAT'S A
RENDERERS STYLISTIC
INTERPRETATION.
>> YEAH NO I GET IT FROM WOULD
THE WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO
AGREE TO BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
>> IS THAT SOMETHING YOU ARE
PREPARED TO COMMIT TO THIS
EVENING?
>> THE ONLY THING I'D SAY TO
THAT IS JUST OUR CONVERSATIONS
WITH DTT AND AND YOU KNOW
LIMITATIONS WHERE THEY SAID TO
US WE DON'T KNOW THAT WE HAVE
ENOUGH CAPACITY TO DO 100
PERCENT ELECTRIFIED BUILDING
WHICH WAS A SHOCK COMING TO
THIS MARKET AND HAVING YOUR
POWER PROVIDER MAKE THAT KIND
OF STATEMENT.
SO THAT'S OUTSIDE OF OUR
CONTROL REALLY.
AND SO THAT'S WHERE I GET A
LITTLE CONCERNED.
YOU KNOW, WE HAVE EVERY INTENT
TO DO IT.
I MEAN WE'RE WE'RE PUSHING THAT
PLATFORM ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY
.
IT'S JUST AT SOME POINT THE
LIMITATION OF LOCAL POWER GRIDS
ARE REAL
.
DOES STEPHANIE HAVE ANY
FEEDBACK ABOUT THAT?
MR. LEONARD, A QUESTION TO YOUR
CONVERSATIONS WITH DTG FROM A
TIMING PERSPECTIVE AS THIS WILL
THIS PROPOSAL OF IF IT MOVES ON
FROM THIS EVENING MORE THAN
PROGRESS TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
READING SO THEY'D BE A
HYPOTHETIC A MONTH OUT FROM NOW
AND A MONTH AFTER THAT WOULD
YOU HAVE A PRETTY GOOD SENSE
OF THE CAPACITY TO ANSWER
WITHIN THAT TIMEFRAME?
>> I HOPE SO.
I WOULD HOPE IN THE NEXT 60
DAYS WE CAN SOLVE SOME OF THAT.
>> SO WITH THAT ONE OF THE
THINGS I COULD SUGGEST IS WHAT
WHAT I'M HEARING IS INTEREST
TRYING TO MEMORIALIZE SOME
OF THOSE SUSTAINABILITY PIECES
INTO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
WE CAN WORK WITH THE
PETITIONER.
YOU KNOW, I'M RELUCTANT TO SAY
WHICH ONES NOW FOR REASONS LIKE
THAT BECAUSE IF ELECTRIFICATION
IS PUT IN THERE BUT WE FIND A
MONTH FROM NOW THAT THERE ISN'T
CAPACITY TO DO THAT THAT'S
GOING TO HAMSTRING THEIR
ABILITY TO GO FORWARD.
SO WHAT I WOULD A POSSIBILITY
IS STAFF COULD CONTINUE TO WORK
WITH THE PROJECT TEAM WITH THAT
DIRECTION FROM THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO INCORPORATE AS
MANY OF THOSE SUSTAINABILITY
EFFORTS IN AS POSSIBLE THE
CONSTRUCTION WASTE DIVERSION,
THE ELECTRIFICATION AND THE
RENEWABLE EXPLORATION AND
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION AND TRY
TO ADVANCE THOSE TO AS MUCH
FINITE DETERMINATION BY THE
TIME THAT CITY COUNCILS
ADOPTING THAT SITE PLAN AND THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AT THE
END OF THIS REVIEW CYCLE.
YES, WITH WITH THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT THE BUILDING
MIGHT NOT BE ALL ELECTRIC.
SO I JUST WANT TO LIKE I THINK
IT'S A LITTLE BIT MISLEADING
FOR THE REPORT TO SAY THE
BUILDING WILL BE ALL ELECTRIC
WITH NO NATURAL GAS CONNECTION
LIKE I THINK WE'RE GOING TO
ASSERT THOSE THINGS THEN NOT
JUST FOR US BUT FOR THE PUBLIC
IF WE'RE GOING TO ASSERT THOSE
THINGS, THEY SHOULD BE THINGS
THAT HAVE BEEN COMMITTED TO BY
THE DEVELOPER NOT JUST THINGS
WHICH ARE INTENTIONS OR
ASPIRATIONS FOR THE PROJECT.
>> SO I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
ABOUT THAT.
>> UM, I WOULDN'T IT'S NOT LIKE
I'M GOING TO WITHHOLD MY
SUPPORT BECAUSE OF IT, BUT I
JUST WANT THAT TO BE CLEAR.
UM, AND THEN I JUST WANT TO GO
ON THE RECORD AND SAY I
UNDERSTAND TWENTY TO YEARS IS A
LOT OF THE OWNERS BUT LIKE IF
THAT BY LINK GO ALL THE WAY
AROUND IT'D BE AMAZING.
SO I'M GOING TO PUT IN A VOTE
FOR THAT AND SO LET ME JUST
ONCE ANYONE ELSE HAVE ANYTHING
WHILE I GATHER MY I THINK
THAT'S IT BUT I JUST WANT TO
LOOK AT MY NOTES OVER TIME.
>> I ALSO JUST WITH ANYONE
CURIOUS ABOUT I WAS SURPRISED
THAT NO OTHER COMMISSIONER
ASKED ABOUT ONE HE THOUGHT
ABOUT IT WAS JUST I MEAN JUST
FOR FUN.
I LOOKED AT KIND OF WHAT IT
WOULD MEAN IF THIS WAS SEE ONE
INSTEAD SEEMED TO BE I MEAN I
THINK THE BIGGEST DIFFERENCE IS
THAT YOU COULD GO TO THREE
HUNDRED FEET SO WE COULD HAVE A
TOWER A RESIDENTIAL TOWER HERE
.
INTERESTINGLY WE DON'T ALLOW
A.C. ONE OUTDOOR RECREATION OR
OH, THIS WAS MY OTHER QUESTION.
UH, DO YOU PLAN FOR ANY OF THE
RESIDENTS?
NEVER MIND.
THE OTHER THING THAT I NOTICED
WAS THAT AND WE WOULD GET MORE
EV PARKING WHICH I DON'T THINK
IS ALL THAT SIGNIFICANT BUT WE
WOULD THE MAX PARKING IN DC ONE
OUTRAGEOUSLY HIGH SO LIKE THE
MAX FOR THE RESIDENTIAL SIDE
WOULD BE ONE THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY SPOTS.
SO WE MIGHT THERE MIGHT BE
SOMETHING WANT TO COME BACK TO
IN THE FUTURE.
I THINK THAT'S ALL I HAD.
THANKS FOR BEING WITH ME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
OH YEAH MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT
COMMENT THAT IT'S JUST JUST TO
STATE PUBLICLY I GUESS IT'S
REALLY FRUSTRATING.
>> IT IS.
I JUST FEEL LIKE OVER AND OVER
WE'RE HEARING THIS AND I'M JUST
GOING TO SAY IT'S VERY
FRUSTRATING LIKE YOU CAN'T YOU
YOU ARE ACTUALLY COMING HERE
AND STANDING HERE AND SAYING
YOU'RE COMMITTED TO BEING ALL
ELECTRIC.
>> THIS IS IMPORTANT TO YOUR
BOTH OF YOUR COMPANIES AND FOR
TO BE THE BOTTLENECK WHEN ALL
OVER TV I SEE THEIR ADS ABOUT
LIKE WE'RE PROMOTING
SUSTAINABILITY AND WE'RE
HELPING IN OUR WORK GET THERE
LIKE IT'S.
SO I HOPE THAT THEY GIVE YOU
THE ANSWER THAT YOU'RE LOOKING
FOR TO BE ABLE TO MAKE THIS THE
THE PROJECT THAT WE ALL WANT IT
TO BE LIKE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
COMMISSIONERS ARE THEY ARE
GATHERING YOUR THOUGHTS?
>> NO, NO I'M DONE BUT GO
AHEAD.
YOU DO WANT TO SAY SOMETHING
ABOUT DC ONE?
IT SEEMED LIKE YOU WANTED TO
RESPOND TO THAT BUT I LOOKED AT
DC ONE AND MY EVALUATION OF THE
REZONING IS THAT THESE ARE
ACTUALLY VERY SMALL LIKE THE
CTA WE'RE GOING FROM PARKING TO
CGP IT'S NOT A JUMP OF C THREE
DC TO BE LIKE IT'S JUST IT'S
WAY BETTER THAN ZONED PARKING
AND IT'S WITH EVERYTHING THAT
MATCHED THAT I THINK STAFF ADD
TO AN ADVISORY IT'S LIKE WE'RE
GOING TO LOOK AT THEM ALL
SEPARATELY.
IT'S BASICALLY ITS OWN MINI
CITY IN A DIFFERENT WAY AND
THAT WE'RE IT FEELS NEARLY BY
RIGHT TO ME TO GO FROM A
PARKING DISTRICT TO EXPANDING
THE TO SO THAT'S MY REVIEW
OF IT AND THAT'S ACTUALLY HOW I
LOOKED AT THIS PROJECT MORE
FROM A BUYING RIGHTS STANDARD
IN TERMS OF MEASURING
EXPECTATIONS AND ASKS EVEN
THOUGH I KNOW IT IS A REZONING.
SO AT THAT I ACTUALLY MAYBE
SINCE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
THOUGH DID YOU SUBMIT EARLY A
PRE DESIGN WORK ORDER WITH THEM
TO I DON'T KNOW WHAT WE CALL IT
WE'VE HAD THE WE WE'VE HAD THE
INITIAL CONVERSATION.
WE SHOW THEM SORT OF YOU GET
THE ENGINEERING TEAM TOGETHER.
>> YEAH YEAH YEAH.
AND LIKE A FORMAL YOU CAN LIKE
SUBMIT A FORM PAM TWO THOUSAND
DOLLARS AND YOU ACTUALLY GET
THEIR ATTENTION THAT THEY HAVE
TO PUT YOU ON THE SCHEDULE SORT
OF THING WITH THEIR MINDS.
>> WE'VE GIVEN THEM ALL OUR
ELECTRICAL LOADS.
YEAH.
ALL COMPONENTS AND SUBMITTED
THAT AND THAT'S I'M JUST LIKE I
THINK IT'S LIKE A UNKNOWN
PROCESS THAT MAKES IT REALLY
HARD THAT YOU CAN DO THAT LIKE
THERE'S A ONE PAGER AND THERE'S
A MIDDLE MAN THAT LIKE HELPS
FACILITATE ORGANIZING ALL
OF THOSE MEETINGS AND THAT YOU
HAVE A PRE DESIGN, A SCHEMATIC
AND A D THE PHASE MEETING TO
HELP DEVELOP AN ENGINEERING
RIGHT ALONGSIDE OF YOU AND IT
IS LIKE TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS.
>> BUT I THINK THAT IT'S
SOMETHING I THINK I'VE TALKED
TO STEPH ABOUT THIS A LITTLE
BIT MAYBE MORE COLOR THAN
ANYBODY BUT SOMETHING THAT
MAYBE WE CAN DO BETTER TO HELP
MORE DEVELOPMENT EARLY ON HOW
THEY CONNECT AND SCALE SO THAT
BY THE TIME YOU GET HERE
THEY'VE DONE A LOT OF THEIR
MATH WITH YOU.
>> SO I'M JUST CURIOUS IF YOU
DID THAT AND THEY'RE STILL
LAGGING BEHIND OR I WOULD SAY
IT WAS IT WAS SLOW TO GET THEIR
ATTENTION TO GET THAT FIRST
MEETING
WE HAD THAT FIRST
MEETING OF JUST LAST WEEK.
I HEARD SOME THINGS LIKE YEAH.
DESCRIBED EARLIER THAT WERE
SHOCKING AS WELL AS AT LEAST
FOR THE MULTIFAMILY SIDE UM YOU
KNOW, THEN LOOKING FOR OUR OUR
OUR POWER SYSTEM TO BE DESIGNED
AS IF WE WERE BUILDING A HIGH
RISE WHICH IS WAS A BIT OF A
HEAD SCRATCHER AS WELL AND
WE'RE JUST GETTING NEW NEWS .
WE'RE TRYING TO WORK THROUGH IT
BUT THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT
BRINGING MASSIVE TRANSFORMERS
INTO THE BUILDING.
YEP.
WITH EIGHT FOOT WIDE CORRIDORS.
YEAH.
AND THINGS WERE LARGER ACTUALLY
IN ELEVATORS AND IT'S JUST
MADNESS LIKE YOU MENTIONED
ELECTRIC ROOMS NEXT TO WHERE
PEOPLE ARE SLEEPING.
I DON'T HAVE ANY IDEA OF YEAH
YEAH BUT WE'RE WORKING THROUGH
IT.
YEAH.
MAYBE I'M JUST GOING TO ADD
THIS I DON'T THINK IT'S REALLY
A MATTER OF MAYBE I'LL THIS
THING A LOT OF YOUR ELECTRIC
LOAD IS YOU'RE EVEN CAPABLE NOT
YOUR EVIDENCE OLD AND SO I
WOULD RATHER SEE A FULLY
ELECTRIC BUILDING OCCUPIED
SPACES RATHER THAN A FULLY
OCCUPIED PANEL FOR FUTURE
PARKING RIGHT.
>> AND SO IF IT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE CAN BE A FULLY ELECTRIC
BUILDING OF UNITS AND THERE'S A
ZEBU VARIANCE OF I DON'T KNOW,
A TEN YEAR COMPLIANCE TO GET
THE REST OF THE POWER FOR YOU
THAT YOU BRING IN A SECOND
PANEL AND SERVICE I WOULD
RATHER SEE THAT STEP INSTEAD
OF BRINGING THE GAS TO THE
BUILDING IT.
SO WOULD THAT BE LIKE A ZIB
LIKE HOW OR IF I DON'T THINK
I'D BE A VERY GOOD ZIBA BECAUSE
YOU'D BE RENDERING A DECISION
ON A PROPERTY THAT WAS
DEPENDENT ON SOMEBODY ELSE
DOING SOMETHING.
>> I WOULD SUGGEST THAT THAT'S
A CONCERN.
WE NEED TO REVISIT OUR EV
PARKING STANDARDS.
YEAH, I'M ALL FOR THAT BUT I
BUT SO I DON'T YEAH.
I CAN JUST ACTUALLY I CAN ADD
TO THAT BECAUSE I DID HAVE A
CONVERSATION ONE OF OUR EBBY
PEOPLE IN THE OFFICE THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND IT KIND
OF EXPRESSED THAT CONCERNS I
HEARD FROM THIS PETITIONER AS
WELL AS FOR THE VILLAGE THE
VILLAGE PROJECT THAT WE SAW A
COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO OR SO.
>> SO THEY THEY THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY UNDERSTANDS
THAT THIS IS AN ISSUE AND THEY
THEY ARE LOOKING AT AGAIN I
CAN'T PROMISE ANYTHING BUT THEY
THEY UNDERSTAND THAT BECAUSE I
EXPRESSED EXACTLY WHAT I SAID
IS THAT CAPACITY NEEDS TO BE
THERE FOR THOSE EVS EVEN
CAPABLE SPACES AND IF THEY'RE
NOT GOING TO BE INSTALLED IN
TEN YEARS SO ANYWAY JUST TO ADD
TO THAT THEY'RE AWARE THAT IT
IS AN ISSUE BUT I'M NOT SURE
OF THE TIMELINE ON THAT.
>> YEAH, AND THERE'S DIVERSITY
AS WELL.
RIGHT.
SO A CHARGING STATION DOESN'T
MEAN THAT THAT'S AVAILABLE.
LIKE I PLUG IN AND I'M RIGHT.
YOU CAN HEAR WHAT THEIR
SOFTWARE TECHNOLOGY IS CHANGING
ALL THE TIME.
SO I THINK YOU COULD TAKE THAT
90 AND YOU CAN RATIONALIZE A
REASONABLE AMOUNT OF DIVERSITY
ON THAT JUST TO BRING THE
OVERALL LOAD DOWN ON IT.
SO IT DOESN'T HAMSTRING THE
INITIAL UPFRONT DESIGN.
SO SO MAYBE A TIP WOULD BE
DESIGN YOUR SECONDARY SERVICE
FOR THE PARKING AND YOUR
PRIMARY SURFACE FOR THE
RESIDENTIAL AND IF YOU NEED
THAT ONE SERVICE ONLY WELL AND
SO YES, SOMEHOW IF IT NEEDS TO
BE GAS POWERED WE SHOULD GAS
POWER THOSE EVVY PANELS SO THAT
WHEN YOU CAN UNTAP IT AND PLUG
IN MORE ELECTRIC IT'S AN EASY
TRANSITION SORT OF THING LIKE
WE HAVE CONFLICTS IN OUR GOALS
RIGHT NOW AND I THINK THE
HARDEST THING IS SEEING WHAT
COULD BE THE WORST CASE
SCENARIO IS WE PUT IN FULL
ELECTRIFICATION INTO THIS
PROJECT.
IT'S UNACHIEVABLE AND SO YOU'RE
EITHER COMING BACK AND SPENDING
MORE TIME RE APPROVING THIS
PROJECT IF IT GETS PROVED WE'RE
COMING BACK AND REAPPROVED THIS
PROJECT.
>> DILLANE MORE HOUSING IN OUR
COMMUNITY FOR THE SAKE
OF ELECTRIC VEHICLES THAT
AREN'T YET ON THE ROAD AND SO I
I'VE SAID MY PEACE AND MY
AGENDA FOR NEW PROPOSED
BUSINESS TO TO NOT TO FURTHER
COMPLICATE BUT WE'RE SIMON
ACROSS THE COUNTRY PUTTING
LEVEL THREE CHARGERS IN BECAUSE
IT'S MORE IN KEEPING WITH THE
SHOPPING TRIP OR GOING TO THE
YOU KNOW, SHOPPING GOING TO
RESTAURANT WHATEVER AND SO
WHICH OBVIOUSLY REQUIRE MORE
MORE POWER THAN THE TYPICAL
CHARGERS, THE LEVEL TO WHICH
REALLY WHERE THEY MIGHT WORK
OVERNIGHT JUST LIKE I HAVE A
CHARGER AT MY HOUSE WORKS
OVERNIGHT BUT SO THAT
RESIDENTIAL WOULD WORK BUT FOR
THE FOR THE RETAIL IT'S EVY'S
ARE LEVEL THREE THE WAY TO GO
ARE YOU I MEAN AND HOW MUCH 20
TO PROPERTY OWNERS HOW MANY
POWER SERVICES NOW I'M JUST
CURIOUS HOW MANY HOW MANY POWER
SERVICES DO YOU HAVE TO THEM
ALL IN TERMS OF ARE YOU AND MY
QUESTION IS ARE YOU LOOKING TO
ADD MORE EV CHARGERS ACROSS THE
OTHER PARKING LOTS AT THIS TIME
TO TO KEEP UP WITH, YOU KNOW,
CLIENTELE MARKET DEMAND I THINK
AND AGAIN GOING BACK TO THAT
OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE, THE MORE
YOU KNOW THE SIMON THAT WE WERE
LOADING UP WITH HEAVY CHARGERS
ON THIS REDEVELOPMENT SITE, THE
THE MALL OWNERSHIP PARTNERSHIP
WITH THE PENSION FUND WE WERE
LOOKING AT DOING THAT.
I MEAN SO YOU IN THE FUTURE WE
MAY FIND MORE PENNIES.
MACY'S DON'T KNOW.
I DO KNOW IN OTHER PLACES
MACY'S HAVE THEY HAVE PUT IN
CHARGERS ON ON THEIR PROPERTIES
BUT WE'RE DOING IT THROUGHOUT
THE COUNTRY.
>> YEAH.
OK, APPRECIATE THAT.
THANK YOU.
UM, BEFORE WE VOTE, DO WE NEED
TO CHANGE ANYTHING UM TO
INCLUDE THIS KIND
OF PROVISIONAL IDEA ABOUT THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS VIS A
VIS SUSTAINABILITY?
WE CANNOT BE AN INFORMAL I
DON'T FEEL LIKE THERE NEEDS TO
BE A CHANGE TO THE MOTION THAT
ANY INSTRUCTION THAT I'M GOING
TO TAKE FROM THIS CONVERSATION
AND I JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR
WITH THE PRODUCERS BEFORE WE
MOVE FORWARD WITH THE CITY
COUNCIL, WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION WITH YOU ABOUT TO
WHAT EXTENT CAN WE INCORPORATE
YOUR SUSTAINABILITY PROVISIONS
INTO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
THAT ISN'T JUST TO SET THE
STAGE THAT IF THOSE ARE
INCLUDED IN THERE THEY BECOME
REQUIREMENTS.
THE PROJECT HOWEVER THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IS THE
CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE CITY AND THE
PETITIONER SO THAT WOULD NOT
NECESSARILY NECESSITATE A
REVISION TO THE SITE.
AND SO ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF THAT
IS IF THEY WERE TO SAY IF THEY
WERE TO AGREE TO FULL
ELECTRIFICATION OF THE COMMIT
TO THAT FOR THE RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING AT THIS TIME MOVE
FORWARD, IT TURNS BUT THAT
CAN'T BE REALIZED.
THEY WOULD HAVE TO COME BACK TO
CITY COUNCIL, AMEND THAT
DEVELOPMENT AND REMOVE THAT
PROVISION.
YOU WOULD NOT SEE THAT AGAIN AT
THE PLANNING COMMISSION LEVEL
BUT THAT WOULD CREATE THAT.
I THINK WHAT COMMISSIONER SAUVé
IS TALKING ABOUT SOME PROCESS
REQUIREMENTS IF THAT COULDN'T
BE MET AND SO BUT IN SHORT, I
DON'T THINK WE NEED A MOTION
TRANSMITTING THAT TO THE
PROJECT TEAM AND TO TO MATT.
WE WILL WORK WITH THEM TO SEE
IF WE CAN ADVANCE SOME OF THOSE
INTO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
.
THIS WILL PROGRESS THEN GO TO
CITY COUNCIL AND WE MAY REPORT
TO THE CITY COUNCIL THAT THEY
WERE UNWILLING TO DO THAT AND
WE'LL JUST BE CLEAR ABOUT THAT
.
OK, I THINK WE'RE READY FOR A
VOTE THEN THAT'S ME TOO.
>> LET'S START WITH
COMMISSIONER DISH.
YES, COMMISSIONER SILVER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER EVANS.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER EVANS.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
THE MOTIONS CARRY THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO ITEM NINE B
ON THE AGENDA SIXTEEN FIFTY
FIVE PLYMOUTH ROAD TACO BELL.
THIS IS A PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENTS OWNED PARCEL SITE
PLANNED FOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL PROPOSAL TO
DEMOLISH WOW.
IT'S A LOT OF PEOPLE TOOK A
PROPOSAL TO TO DEMOLISH THE
EXISTING STRUCTURE.
FINALLY WENDY'S RESTAURANT BEEN
CONSTRUCTED APPROXIMATELY TWO
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FOOT TACO BELL RESTAURANT, THE
SINGLE DRIVE THRU LANE SITE
ACCESS TO REMAIN OFF PLYMOUTH
ROAD AND OSAGE DRIVE WITH
THIRTY FIVE PARKING SPACES
LOCATED IN FRONT OF THE
RESTAURANT TWO POINT NINE ACRE
SITE.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL WITH CONDITION.
WE'LL BEGIN PETITION OR
PRESENTATION.
YOU HAVE TEN MINUTES.
THANK YOU.
>> GREAT.
JUST GIVE ME ONE MINUTE I'M
GOING TO GO UP THERE ABOUT TO
WELL I'LL JUST INTRODUCE
OURSELVES BECAUSE WE'RE GOING
TO LET THE ENGINEERS TAKE OVER
THE POWERPOINT BUT I'M QUITE
LIGHTER'S I'M THE OWNER.
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT THE
LANDOWNER IS IN ATTENDANCE AS
WELL.
THIS IS MATT, OUR DIRECTOR
OF CONSTRUCTION.
SO I JUST WANT TO GIVE A LITTLE
BACKGROUND SO WE ARE A LOCAL
COMPANY HERE OUT OF BRIGHTON,
MICHIGAN.
WE WERE FRANCHISEES.
WE OWNED THE THREE OTHER TACO
BELL'S IN ANN ARBOR.
I ACTUALLY LIVE RIGHT NEXT TO
THE HANDS ON MUSEUM SO I'M A
LOCAL AS WELL.
SO I GREW UP GOING TO THIS ONE
DAY I WENT TO GRINNELL'S SO I
ALWAYS THOUGHT IT'D BE A GREAT
TACO BELL.
IT SHUT DOWN.
I WAS SUPER EXCITED ABOUT IT
AND I'VE BEEN GOING AT THIS FOR
TWO YEARS SO I KNOW THERE'S A
LOT OF A LOT OF HURDLES WE HAD
TO JUMP THROUGH BUT IT'S
SOMETHING THAT I'VE ALWAYS
WANTED TO DEVELOP AND THE
OPPORTUNITY PRESENTED ITSELF SO
ALL THAT I DON'T HAVE ZELLA'S
ON RIGHT NOW.
>> SCOTT UH YEP.
WELL LET ME PROMOTE SO WE HAVE
SCOTT FROM SEVILLE.
THEY'RE BOTH OUT OF WISCONSIN
AND THEN WE HAVE JOHN FOR ANY
BUILDING QUESTIONS TODAY
.
>> IF I HAVE TO I CAN PRESENT
IT I GUESS
I HAVE A SCOTT R AND
AND A DOW WHICH MIGHT BE THOSE
ARE BOTH ALL.
>> OK AND THEN THERE'S A JD
JASON DAY.
ALL RIGHT.
SHIPYARD'S EVERYBODY SUPPORTED
HER COVERAGE OF MITSUKI.
YES WE CAN.
OK, GREAT.
OK, CAN PROCEED IF THEY'RE
GOING TO PROVIDE ANY OVERVIEW
ARE THEY ALL ARE THEY ALL IN
ZOM OH OK.
>> TAKE AWAY SCOTT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO YES AND TALK TO ME WE ARE
LOOKING BE DEVELOPING A DENHA
RESTAURANT OR WENDY'S SITE UM
RIGHT NOW WE HAVE GONE THROUGH
A COUPLE OF STAFF REVIEWS ON
THIS PROJECT AND WE HAVE
ADDRESSED THE ISSUES WE JUST
HAD ANOTHER PIECE OF THE CITY
ON FRIDAY ADDRESSING ISSUES
THAT WERE ON SITE UM MOST
OF THE COMMENTS WERE DRIVEN BY
TECHNICAL ISSUES THAT DIDN'T
SEEM TO BE ANYTHING THAT WAS
OUTSTANDING AS FAR AS ANYTHING
THAT WOULD REALLY PETER THE
DEVELOPMENT FROM ZONING
PERSPECTIVE AND ALSO WHAT'S
ALLOWED BY THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS AND SEE IN THE
ZONING REGULATIONS.
SO I KNOW THE STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL BASED ON
THE ZONING THAT THEY ARE TO THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS ARE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION THAT ARE
REQUIRED BECAUSE BASICALLY
FOLLOWING WE'VE SEEN THE CITY
USE THIS THEY ARE RIGHT NOW YOU
WILL USE THE EXISTING DRIVE
THRU LANE THAT IS AT THE SITE
RIGHT NOW.
>> UH, AND IT COMPLIES WITH THE
STATE LOCAL FEDERAL LAWS AND
ORDINANCES THE STANDARDS AND
REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO THE
RESOLUTION OF THE FOLLOWING
WHICH WERE THE STAFF
REQUIREMENTS THAT WE JUST WENT
THROUGH.
LIKE I SAID, WE JUST DID SUBMIT
THOSE ON FRIDAY AND I BELIEVE
THAT WE ADDRESSED ALL THOSE
ISSUES.
OF COURSE THE STAFF STARTS TO
LOOK AT THAT AND I THINK IF
THERE WERE ANY ISSUES BUT I
BELIEVE THAT THERE ARE AND THAT
WHAT YOU GET WHO THOSE AND THE
ARE YOU LOOKING TO UPGRADE THIS
PROPERTY FROM WHAT IT IS RIGHT
NOW WHICH IS IT'S A LITTLE BIT
DISREPAIR RIGHT NOW.
IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S BEEN VACANT
FOR A WHILE AND RIGHT NOW I
THINK IT'LL BE A GREAT
IMPROVEMENT FOR FOR THE CITY.
>> JOHN, IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING
TO ADD AS FAR AS THE
ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS TO
BUILDING, UH, YES.
>> THIS IS JONATHAN WITH EXCEL
ENGINEERING AND JUST AS A KNOW
WE ARE NOT REALLY DEMOLISHING
THE EXISTING WE NEED TO WE ARE
KEEPING A COUPLE OF OPTIONS ON
REUSING THEM THEN FROM AN
ARCHITECTURAL STANDPOINT
KEEPING THE RHETORIC TO MATCH
THE EXISTING AND THEN THERE ARE
A COUPLE ELEMENTS FROM THE TACO
CORP PORTFOLIO AT THE MAIN
ENTRANCES AND CORNERS TO KIND
OF MAYBE AS TACO BELL IT'S
POSSIBLE A BIT
I GUESS SO.
>> BUT THE PLAN SAID OR I DON'T
KNOW IF THERE'S A STAFF REVIEW
I SAID THAT WE WERE DEMO THE
WHOLE BUILDING BUT WE WE TRIED
TO KEEP TWO WALLS UP BECAUSE WE
THOUGHT THAT WOULD GRANDFATHER
IN THE SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
I'M NOT SURE IF THAT'S STILL
THE CASE.
THAT'S HOW WE DEVELOP THE WHOLE
SITE.
THAT'S WHY IT'S RED BRICK.
THAT'S WHY IT'S CONFIGURED THE
WAY IT IS.
I'M NOT SURE IF THAT STILL
STANDS BUT THAT WAS THE MINDSET
BEHIND HOW IT'S DEVELOPED.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANYTHING ELSE?
OK, WE'RE GOING TO MOVE TO
STAFF PRESENTATION MR. CHEN OK
EXCELLENT.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
PRESENTATION.
THIS SITE IS ON PD.
IT WAS ORIGINALLY ZONE PULLED
BACK IN 1980 FIVE BACK THEN WE
DIDN'T REQUIRE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS SO AT THAT TIME IT WAS
COMBINED WITH I THINK IT WAS AN
OIL CHANGE IN SELF-STORAGE AT
THIS TIME IT WAS SPLIT OFF AND
WE HAD SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
ADDED IN ABOUT 1998 WHEN WE
FINALLY REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS AS PART OF PUDI IT WAS
DIVIDED FROM THE PARENT PARCEL
AND APPROVED BACK IN 2012.
ALL OF THE ZONING CODES BACK
THEN.
>> SO ALL THE CROSS ACCESS
EASEMENTS AND PARKING EASEMENTS
HAVE ALREADY BEEN RECORDED.
I DIDN'T INCLUDE THEM IN THE
PACKET BUT I ASSURE YOU THEY'VE
BEEN APPROVED.
I THINK PROBABLY JUST TO
ADDRESS YES.
THEY STATED THAT THEY'RE
KEEPING TWO WALLS UP BUT STAFF
YOU KNOW, ONCE WE CONSIDER THAT
IT'S A NEW BUILDING, ITS NEW
FLOOR AREA, IT'S GOING TO BE
APPROVED BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THIS IS THE FINAL DECISION
MAKER.
IT DOES NOT GO ON TO CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION.
SO CITY COUNCIL I'M SORRY CITY
COUNCIL I'M LOOKING AT
COMMISSIONER DECISION KNOWING
THAT IT'S THAT CITY COUNCIL
FROM THIS COUNCIL PERSON NOT
LOST MY TRAIN OF THOUGHT BUT WE
DID CONCLUDE THAT IT DOES NEED
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL AS
THE FINAL APPROVAL.
I DO REALIZE WE ONLY HAVE SIX
MEMBERS AND WE'LL NEED ALL SIX
MEMBERS TONIGHT TO VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE.
SO IF FOR SOME REASON THIS
STARTS TO GO DOWN PROBABLY A
ROCKY ROAD, MAYBE ONE OF YOU
DON'T FEEL LIKE APPROVING IT,
PLEASE POSTPONE IT AND NOT DENY
THEM BECAUSE THEY'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO SOMEHOW PETITION YOU TO
COME BACK BECAUSE THEY'RE GOING
TO NEED ALL SIX VOTES TO GET
APPROVED TONIGHT.
>> IT IS CONTINGENT UPON THE
ENGINEERING APPROVALS THERE.
I WAS JUST LOOKING AT THEM
AGAIN IT HASN'T BEEN APPROVED
ALTHOUGH THE APPROVAL DEADLINE
IS I THINK OCTOBER 11TH FOR THE
ENGINEERING REVIEW.
THESE ARE VERY FAIRLY MINOR
REVIEW ITEMS THAT CAN BE
ADDRESSED WHEN YOU GO THROUGH
THEM.
SO WE FELT COMFORTABLE OF OF
APPROVING THIS SUBJECT TO
ENGINEERING REVIEW AND APPROVAL
AND I'M HERE FOR ANY QUESTIONS
YOU MAY HAVE.
>> THANK YOU.
WE WILL NOW MOVE TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED SITE.
THERE'S A TYPO IN SIXTEEN FIFTY
FIVE AT PLYMOUTH ROAD SITE
PLAN.
WELL FIRST ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISE HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INTERMEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO
SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS
SO WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
>> NO THANK YOU.
I WILL CLOSE THE HEARING READ
THE PROPOSED MOTION THE
ANTHROPOSOPHY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY APPROVES THE
SIXTEEN FIFTY FIVE PLYMOUTH
ROAD TACO BELL PLAN AS IT
COMPLIES WITH ALL APPLICABLE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AND OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS.
ORDINANCES, STANDARDS AND
REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO
RESOLUTION OF THE FOLLOWING ONE
APPROVAL OF ENGINEERING ISSUES
IDENTIFIED IN REVIEW DATED NINE
EIGHT TWENTY TWENTY THREE MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER DISH SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER SAUVé WE IN
DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER.
>> SO MAY I JUST WANT TO TRACK
THE TIMELINE AND UNDERSTAND THE
PROJECT IN PARCEL.
SO IT WAS ZONED AS A PUDI AS A
COMMERCIAL CONDO WITH SEVERAL
OTHER PARCELS BOTH STORAGE AND
MECHANIC SHOP AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
CORRECT WHERE THERE WERE NO
PREVIOUS SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS IN NINETEEN EIGHTY
FIVE AND SO WE HAVE A PUDI
OVERLAY AND THEN IN 2000 TWELVE
THIS PARCEL SEPARATED FROM THAT
COMBINED PARCEL BUT STILL
REMAINED IN THE PUDI AND WITHIN
COMPLIANCE OF THE PUDI ZONING.
THAT'S CORRECT.
OK AND SO WE'RE NOT LOOKING AT
THE COMBINATION STUFF BUT WE DO
HAVE THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS WHICH I UNDERSTAND
IT SAYS PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USE
A FAST FOOD RESTAURANT WITH
DRIVE THROUGH WINDOW SO IT'S
NOT IT DOESN'T REQUIRE IN THE D
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
AND THAT'S OK.
>> AND SO IT ALSO WOULDN'T
MATTER IF IT DEMO DAY OR NOT
AND IT WOULD ALLOW A NEW DRIVE
THRU RIGHT.
THE TWO WALLS DON'T MATTER
SINGLE A SINGLE DRIVE THRU LANE
WHICH IS WHAT'S THERE NOW AND
WHAT'S YOUR PLAN AS WELL.
SO IT WOULD STILL BE COMPLIANT
AS ALL NEW CONSTRUCTION.
OK SO OTHER THAN THE
PRESENTATION WHERE I SAID THIS
WAS A PUBLIC BENEFIT IF YOU'VE
BEEN TRACKING A LOT OF OUR
DISCOURSE HERE AT THE TABLE, WE
DON'T THINK DRIVERS ARE QUITE
THE PUBLIC BENEFIT RELATIVE TO
THE MULTIMODAL BUT AS OUR
RESPONSIBILITY TO REVIEW IF
SITE PLANS MEET THE
REQUIREMENTS IN ZONING, I
BELIEVE IT DOES AND THERE'S
NOTHING TO HOLD US BACK FROM
THAT WE HAVE NO SPECIAL
EXCEPTION.
USE
FILTER TO LOOK AT THIS
PROJECT THROUGH.
>> SO GENERALLY I.
I SUPPORT THE PROJECT MEETING
THE REQUIREMENTS.
I DO NOT BELIEVE IT PROVIDES A
PUBLIC BENEFIT.
I DON'T THINK IT MEETS OUR
CURRENT PUTI STANDARDS BUT
THAT'S NOT WHAT WE'RE HERE TO
DISCUSS TONIGHT.
>> SO WELCOME TACO BELL
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE SO I
HAVE A NOT FOND MEMORY OF THIS
DRIVE THRU FOR ANYONE WHO HAS
BEEN THROUGH THIS DRIVE THRU
WENT TO GET A WENDY'S ON A
FROSTY AND A LUNCH HOUR WITH
SOME FRIENDS AND GOT STUCK IN
THE DRIVE THRU BECAUSE ONE
OF THE CARS BEHIND US WAS NOT
FUNCTIONAL AND THERE WAS IT'S
IT'S TIGHT.
IT'S ABOUT THE SMALLEST DRIVE I
THINK YOU COULD HAVE JUST
THROWING THAT OUT THERE THAT
HOPEFULLY AT SOME POINT THIS
DRIVE THRU WILL CEASE TO EXIST
AND IT WON'T BE A THING ANYMORE
.
BUT I DO I DO WANT TO SAY THAT
I DO THINK PICKUP WINDOWS,
WHICH IS NOT HOW CORPORATE
LOOKS AT THEM.
THEY LOOK AT THEM STRICTLY AS
DRIVE THROUGH WINDOWS BUT
PICKUP WINDOWS HAVE A CERTAIN
INTERESTS.
IT'S GOOD FOR PEOPLE WITH
MOBILITY ISSUES.
IT'S GOOD IF YOU HAVE KIDS AND
DOGS IN THE CAR AND YOU DON'T
WANT TO GET OUT.
>> I'M JUST GOING TO SAY IT'S
NOT ALWAYS THEY'RE NOT ALWAYS
TERRIBLE.
>> WE DON'T LIKE THEM.
>> THEY'RE VERY CAR CENTRIC AND
THE FACT THAT YOU CAN'T COME ON
A BICYCLE OR YOU CAN'T BE A
PEDESTRIAN AND USE THAT PICKUP
WINDOW IS REALLY DISCRIMINATORY
IN MY OPINION.
>> I KNOW THERE HAVE BEEN COURT
CASES ABOUT IT AND I THINK THAT
THE DRIVE THRU IS HAVE ONE BUT
MAYBE IN THE FUTURE WE WILL
HAVE SOMETHING.
I KNOW TACO BELL MAKES A LOT
OF THEIR MONEY OFF OF THE DRIVE
THRU WINDOWS.
I THINK IT'S AROUND 70 PERCENT
OF THE MONEY COMES FROM THE
DRIVE THRU WINDOW.
SO HOPEFULLY YOU WILL NOT SEE
CARS DYING IN THE MIDDLE
OF YOUR DRIVE THRU BECAUSE
THERE IS NO REAL WAY OUT
OF THAT ONE UNLESS YOU SCALE
THE WALL.
>> SO GOOD LUCK.
I CAN SAY THAT WE WE DIDN'T
LOOK AT THIS ONE AS HOPEFULLY
MORE OF A WALKABLE DESTINATION
FOR ALL THE STUDENTS AND ALL
THAT HOUSING OVER THERE.
>> YEAH I THINK AS A WALKABLE
DESTINATION IT'S GREAT.
YEAH BUT OBVIOUSLY WE WANT TO
HAVE A DRIVE THRU JUST FOR THE
PEOPLE THAT WANT TO GO THROUGH
THE DRIVE THROUGH AND I HAVE TO
GET OUT OF THEIR CAR SO BUT
WE'RE HOPING THAT IT'S MORE
50/50 SPLIT.
COMMISSIONER TACO BELL OR ANY
OF YOUR TACO BELL'S MAYBE TALK
ABOUT CORPORATE POLICY ABOUT
THIS I DON'T KNOW HOW THIS
WORKS BUT YOU KNOW, JUST LIKE A
INSTEAD OF A DRIVE THROUGH LIKE
AN APP ORDER PICKUP SITUATION
AND WHERE THEY BRING IT OUT TO
YOUR CAR, I'M JUST THINKING
LIKE THIS COULD BE A FUTURE.
>> SO WE DO HAVE PICKUP
STATIONS INSIDE THE TACO SO
THEY'LL ORDER AHEAD.
IT'LL BE PLACED ON THE PICKUP
SHELF AND THEN THEY'LL COME IN
AND JUST GRAB IT.
>> THAT'S KIND OF OUR OK,
THERE'S NO LIKE LIKE MCDONALD'S
YOU CAN LIKE CHECK IN AND THEY
BRING IT OUT TO YOU AND YOU
DON'T HAVE TO LIKE GO IN THE
DRIVE THRU YOU SIT AND I DON'T
THINK WE ARE WORKING ON THAT
LIKE DESIGNATED STALLS THAT HAS
IT.
I HAVEN'T SEEN ANY OF OUR
STORES YET.
>> NO I JUST THINK THAT WILL BE
COMING.
YEAH I MEAN THAT COULD BE SOME
WAY TO SORT OF LIKE MITIGATE
THIS TO WHERE YOU CONVERT
SOMEHOW AND I'M HAVING TROUBLE
ENVISIONING THE SITE I HAVE A
FUN STORY ABOUT THIS MY SENIOR
DESIGN PROJECT SENIOR YEAR
OF COLLEGE TO TIME CITIZEN THIS
WENDY'S RIGHT?
YEAH.
THEY'RE LINE EFFICIENCY WAS WAY
BETTER THAN MCDONALD'S BECAUSE
THEY HAD ONE LINE AND MULTIPLE
SERVERS MCDONALD'S HAD LIKE YOU
JUST JOINED A LINE THIS WAS
LIKE TWENTY FIVE YEARS AGO GUYS
AND IT WAS THAT'S MY WENDY'S
STORY IF THAT IF IF THEY MAKE
THAT MORE WALK UP WINDOW OR A
SHOP WINDOW OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT TO LIKE AVOID GETTING
STUCK PROBLEMS BECAUSE YOU HAD
ANOTHER ANOTHER SOLUTION FOR
SOMEBODY DRIVING AND NEEDING
AND NOT WANTING TO TAKE THEIR
CAR, THEIR KIDS OR WHATEVER.
I COULD JUST BE SOMETHING TO
CONSIDER THE FUTURE.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS QUESTIONS?
ONE GENTLEMAN BRITISH I JUST
HAVE ONE SMALL QUESTION TO
WHICH I THINK I KNOW THE ANSWER
.
WOULD THIS BE A SIGN THAT YOU
COULD HOUSING INSTEAD NOT UNDER
THE CURRENT POVERTY
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS
AND THERE
ISN'T ANY RESIDENTIAL IN THIS
LITTLE MALL.
I MEAN I MEAN I GO TO THIS
LITTLE MALL AND I DIDN'T
REMEMBER ANY SO YES, I GET OUT
OF MY CAR TO EAT IN THE INDIAN
RESTAURANT BUT YEAH OK.
>> IS THIS POZOLE EARMARKED FOR
RETURNING TO POTSIE ONE.
>> YEAH I'LL LOOK BY ANY
MEASURE LET HER ADDRESS THIS
BUT THE SHORT ANSWER YES THIS
ISN'T THE PROPOSED ONE AREAS
THAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION
GUIDED US AND WE ARE
CONSIDERING IS A PETITIONER
AWARE OF THAT WE DID THE AND
LIVE ARTICLE THAT CAME OUT
TODAY SO BUT YOU DIDN'T RECEIVE
NOTIFICATION FROM THE CITY THAT
WOULDN'T HAVE HAPPENED YET I
GUESS NOW THAT UH, LETTERS NOT
OUR PROPERTY OR SO WE'RE NOT
PROPERTY OR AND AH YOU GO SO
LETTERS WENT OUT TO ALL
PROPERTY OWNERS AND POSTCARDS
WENT OUT TO ALL PROPERTY OWNERS
AND RESIDENTS WITHIN ONE
THOUSAND FEET OF THE PROPOSED
AREA.
SO I CAN I CAN SHARE THAT
LETTER WITH YOU AS A BUSINESS
OWNER THERE AS WELL.
I I FIND MYSELF IN A DIFFICULT
POSITION.
UM, THIS IS NOT TYPICALLY THE
KIND OF PROJECT I WOULD BE
SUPER EXCITED TO SUPPORT UM
WHICH IS MAYBE NO SURPRISE TO
YOU PARTICULARLY ON A CORRIDOR
THAT IS ABOUT TO BE REZONED FOR
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT IN A
LOCATION WHERE I THINK A MIXED
USE PROJECT WOULD MAKE A LOT
OF SENSE.
UM, AND THIS JUST KIND
OF CEMENTS UH THIS KIND
OF DEVELOPMENT ON THIS SITE FOR
MANY YEARS TO COME.
SO UM BUT I ALSO UNDERSTAND
THAT THIS SITE PLANNED AND HERE
THE PLANNING COMMISSION IN THAT
WE ONLY HAVE SIX MEMBERS
PRESENT.
>> SO I NEED A MINUTE TO THINK
ABOUT THAT.
>> UM, WE UNDERSTAND THAT YOU
NEED SIX I NEED SIX VOTES TO BE
APPROVED.
THERE'S NINE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMISSION BUT THREE HAPPEN TO
BE ABSENT TONIGHT
.
>> NOBODY ELSE HAS ANYTHING
THEY WANT TO SAY TO FILL THE
VOID.
COMMISSIONER, YOU MUST RETURN.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN AGAIN I'M SORRY
THE THE OUTSTANDING COMMENTS
THAT WE ARE STILL WAITING ON
FROM ENGINEERING THE
ENGINEERING ISSUES?
>> YEAH, I JUST KIND
OF REVIEWED THOSE BEFORE THE
MEETING.
THEY'RE FAIRLY MINOR.
THEY'RE THEY'RE ITEMS LIKE
THEY'RE MORE ADDRESSING
LABELING ISSUES ON SITE, YOU
KNOW, SO THERE'S IT'S NOT AN
ENGINEERING ISSUE PER SAY THAT
YOU'D SAY OH THEY'VE GOT TO
REINVENT THE WHEEL HERE.
THAT'S JUST MORE LABELING ITEMS
ON THE SET OF PLANS TO SATISFY
OUR ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
.
SO I THINK THE OTHER THING
THAT'S STICKY IS THAT TYPICALLY
I UNDERSTAND THAT IT'S A IT'S A
ESSENTIALLY A BRIGHT
DEVELOPMENT.
IT'S MEANING THE ZONING AS IT'S
CURRENTLY ZONED YOU COULDN'T
BUILD HOUSING ON THE SITE EVEN
IF EVEN IF THAT'S WHAT WAS
PROPOSED.
BUT THE FACT THAT IT'S LIKE
RIGHT ABOUT TO BE RECYCLED
WHAT'S UP?
THEY COULD THEN THEY WOULD BEAR
THE COST OF DOING THAT RIGHT.
>> SO I WOULD JUST IT'S
DEFINITELY IN A PROPOSED AREA
THAT GOES THAT IS GOING TO GO
THROUGH THE LEGISLATIVE PROCESS
THAT'S GOING TO COME TO THIS
BOARD.
IT'S GOING TO GO TO THE CITY
COUNCIL SO I CAN APPRECIATE
YOUR PERSPECTIVE THAT IN YOUR
IN YOUR EYES IT IS LIKELY TO BE
REDONE SOON.
I WOULD BE REMISS NOT TO REMIND
YOU THAT IT'S NOT YET THAT
PROCESSOR'S HAS AN UNDETERMINED
OUTCOME.
SO I DEFINITELY UNDERSTAND YOUR
ATTENTION BUT UM AND YOU KNOW,
WE HAVE WE'VE HAD THIS
CONVERSATION WITH STAFF.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS SORT A UNIQUE
SITUATION.
IF IT WERE A SPECIAL NEWS , WE
THINK IT WOULD BE UM PROBABLY A
CHALLENGING PETITION.
THAT'S NOT THE CASE HERE.
YOU'VE GOT A VERY UNIQUE
SITUATION OF A RELATIVELY SMALL
COMPONENT OF A LARGER PARTY.
THE PRD CLEARLY PROVIDES THAT.
SO I JUST I UNDERSTAND YOUR
YOUR PERSPECTIVE ON THAT.
I UNDERSTAND THE ANALYSIS.
BUT I DO WANT TO BE CLEAR THAT
THAT IS STILL SPECULATIVE
OUTCOME.
YES.
I UNDERSTAND THAT IT'S A
SPECULATIVE OUTCOME BUT IT'S
ALSO ONE THAT WOULD BE RESOLVED
IN A IN A MATTER OF MONTHS
WHEREAS THE TACO BELL WILL BE
HERE FOR DECADES NOT HOW LONG
WAS THE WINDOW HERE, SIR?
HOW LONG DO YOU KNOW YOU'RE THE
ONE THIS WAS BUILT BEFORE I WAS
BORN?
>> MY POINT YOU I THINK THE
EXTRA PRESSURE BEING HERE THAT
THE PETITIONER ONLY NEEDS TO
CONVINCE SIX PEOPLE TO VOTE YES
AND WE'RE MISSING THREE PEOPLE
SO IT'S LIKE I JUST HAVE TO
FIGURE OUT PERSONALLY WHAT I'M
GOING TO DO ABOUT THAT
SITUATION.
I SAID ONE OPTION WOULD BE TO
POSTPONE TO THE SEVENTY
OCTOBER 17TH MEETING.
OH I WOULD ASK YOU WHAT WOULD
BE DIFFERENT ABOUT THE
MEASURING THAT'S AGAINST THE
STANDARDS BY WHICH IT IS BEING
MEASURED.
>> UH NOTHING
THEN I WOULD
SUGGEST MAYBE IT DOESN'T.
>> OH SO THERE'S SITE PLANS
THAT I UNDERSTAND I UNDERSTAND
I UNDERSTAND PERFECTLY WELL BUT
I THINK SOMETIMES I CAN JUST
TAKE ISSUE WITH THE REGULATION
.
>> I UNDERSTAND I UNDERSTAND.
>> COMMISSIONER SOUTHEY, MAYBE
I'LL JUST ADD TO THE RECORD IT
WAS DECEMBER OF LAST YEAR THAT
DIRECTION FROM COUNCIL CAME TO
THIS TABLE TO SPEND MORE
ATTENTION TO STADIUM RATHER
THAN MOVE INTO REZONING THE
PLYMOUTH AND WASHTENAW.
>> AND SO THE URGENCY AND THE
UNCERTAINTY OF THIS THING BEING
IN THE MIDDLE OF TECH ONE WITH
MORE CERTAINTY THAN THE CURBS
AND THE SETBACKS OF WEST
STADIUM.
HIS COMING INTO PLAY THE
DECISION AND THE PRIORITY
OF COUNSEL TO SPEND THIS TIME
LOOKING AT CAR USE AND SETBACKS
HAS NOW PUT US IN THE
PREDICAMENT OF A FUTURE IN
ANOTHER CORRIDOR MEMORIAL
RISING A DRIVE THROUGH INSTEAD
IF WE WERE ABLE TO SPEND TIME
REZONING PLYMOUTH STARTING
JANUARY INSTEAD OF TALKING
ABOUT CAR USES AND SETBACKS IN
W STADIUM, THIS MAY NOT BE THE
SITUATION THAT WE'RE IN AND SO
I JUST WANT TO OFFER THAT UP A
PUBLIC RECORD TO SAY THAT MAYBE
OUR PRIORITIES NEED TO BE
BETTER COMMUNICATED.
MAYBE WE NEED TO DO IN A BETTER
SCENARIO PLANNING TO UNDERSTAND
OUTCOMES AND WHERE WE NEED TO
PUT OUR TIME AND POLICY EFFORTS
IF DIRECTED FROM CITY COUNCIL
CITY COUNCIL HAS TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT THOSE PLANNING EFFORT
REPERCUSSIONS WILL BE AND THAT
THIS IS A REPERCUSSION OF THEIR
DIRECTION THAT THEY'VE GIVEN US
AND THIS IS NOT THE SITUATION
THAT WE'RE IN BECAUSE OF THAT
DIRECTIVE.
SO COUNCILMAN BRITISH, IF YOU
WANT TO RELAY IT BACK BUT I'M
GOING TO SAY THAT ON PUBLIC
RECORD THIS IS THE PROBLEM
WE'RE IN TEN MONTHS AFTER THAT
RESOLUTION WE ARE JUST IN THE
FIRST STEPS LOOKING AT THIS
CORRIDOR AND THIS IS THE
PROBLEM.
UH, I APPRECIATE THAT AND I
WOULD NOT I WOULD NEVER DISPUTE
THAT PERSPECTIVE.
I JUST DO WANT TO REMIND YOU,
COMMISSIONER SILVER, IN THE
BALANCE THE COMMISSION THAT
T.C. ONE IS NOT AN
INSTANTANEOUS CHANGE AND I
DEFINITELY APPRECIATE EVERY
EVERY SITE THAT DOESN'T MEET
OUR ASPIRATION FOR A POTENTIAL
CITY.
ONE ZONING FEELS LIKE A LOST
OPPORTUNITY.
BUT I JUST WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
AT THIS TABLE BEFORE THESE ARE
THE QUARTERS HAVE GOTTEN IN
THESE SITUATIONS OVER A LONG
PERIOD OF TIME EVEN WITH THE
CALLERS THAT HAVE NOW BEEN TAKE
ONE WE WE'RE NOT GOING TO
EXPERIENCE INSTANTANEOUS CHANGE
FOR THESE AND THAT'S THAT'S NOT
RIGHT OR WRONG.
>> AND I'M SAYING THAT REFUTE
THAT PERSPECTIVE.
BUT I GUESS I AM SAYING IT TO
RECOGNIZE THAT THE SITE OR TEN
MORE PROPERTIES BEING
CONSIDERED IN THE CONTEXT
OF FUTURE ACTION ON ONE ZONING
ALONG ANY CORRIDOR IS NOT A
IT'S NOT AN ABSOLUTION OF THE
THE FATE OF THESE CORRIDORS
JUST LIKE IT HASN'T BEEN OVER
HISTORY NOTED.
>> AND I ALSO JUST FOR THE
RECORD, IT'S NOT THAT I HAVE
SOME IDEA THAT IF THERE WASN'T
THE TACO BELL HERE THERE WOULD
BE SOME INCREDIBLE VIBRANT
MIXED UNITS LIKE I THINK JUST
LIKE QUAD PLEX WITH I DON'T
KNOW LIKE VTOL THE IDEA WAS
SOMETHING SMALL LIKE JUST
ANYTHING THIS LIKE A SINGLE USE
CAR ORIENTED DRIVE THRU.
IT'S JUST LIKE AND I YEAH IT'S
HARD I WAS GOING TO SAY ONE
OTHER THING BUT I LOST IT WAS
IN RESPONSE TO WHAT YOU WERE
SAYING ABOUT THE SCHEDULE AND I
JUST WAS ALSO GOING TO SAY FOR
THE RECORD I'M SURE YOU ALL
HEARD ABOUT THIS BUT LIKE THERE
ARE PEOPLE CALLING FOR A
MORATORIUM ON DEVELOPMENT ON
PLYMOUTH AND WASHTENAW UNTIL
THE DECISION CAN BE ENACTED.
THAT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT WOULD
THAT'S A CITY COUNCIL ISSUE,
NOT A PLANNING COMMISSION
ISSUE.
>> MY UNDERSTANDING YEAH.
THAT WOULD BE A CITY COUNCIL
AND I'M TO MY UNDERSTANDING
THERE'S BEEN NO INITIATION.
I'VE HEARD THOSE I'VE HEARD
THAT I'VE BEEN CITIZEN CALLED
CITIZENS FOR RESIDENT CALLS.
I SHOULD FOR THAT I AM NOT
AWARE OF ANY ENDEAVOR TO
UNDERTAKE COUNCIL HAS
INSTRUCTED US TO CONTINUE WITH
THOSE CORRIDORS.
AS I REPORT AT THE BEGINNING
OF THAT MEETING WE'RE MAKING
PROGRESS IN THAT REGARD.
>> MAYBE I JUST ASKED MY FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS THEN IF THEIR
SENSES UM IS YOUR SENSE THAT
YOU FEEL THAT BOUND DUTY BOUND
TO VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
BECAUSE IT'S MEETING THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION OF AN
EXISTING PUDI
POLICE
COMMISSIONER SOUTHEY I MEAN
YES, I FEEL I FEEL DUTY UNDER
THIS BUT I FEEL THAT THIS IS A
CONDITION WE COULD HAVE AVOIDED
AND IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE
WOULDN'T HAVE GOT A TWO STORY
BANK INSTEAD MORE HOUSING BUT
IT MEANS BECAUSE OF THE LACK
OF USE FOR OVER A YEAR OF A
DRIVE THROUGH DRIVE THROUGH
WOULD NOT BE PERMITTED AGAIN
AND SO MAY BE THE RESOLUTION TO
FOCUS ON A STADIUM THAT THIS
DRIVE THROUGH BEING DEDICATED
TO THAT RESOLUTION.
>> I I THIS IS THIS IS WHERE I
REALLY FEEL YOU KNOW, I FEEL
DUTY BOUND BUT I ACTUALLY DON'T
FEEL RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS
OUTCOME.
I BELIEVE THAT THIS OUTCOME WAS
PRIORITIES AT A DIFFERENT TABLE
DIRECTED AT US.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
SURE.
WEATHERBEE.
SO MAYBE BECAUSE I GREW UP OFF
OF PLYMOUTH ROAD I'VE SEEN A
LOT OF CHANGE IN THIS CAREER.
KHADAR I'M NOT GOING TO WEAR A
HAIRSHIRT OVER APPROVING A
SMALL DRIVE THROUGH IN THIS
AREA.
>> IT'S A TACO BELL.
IT HAS A VERY TINY DRIVE
DRIVETHROUGH THERE'S GOING TO
BE A LOT OF PEOPLE WALKING TO
IT THAT DRIVE THROUGH MAY END
UP BEING PICNIC TABLES.
WHO KNOWS?
I THINK IT'S IT'S NOT PROBABLY
WHAT WE WANT TO SEE IN A DREAM
WORLD.
>> I'D BE MORE CONCERNED OF THE
MCDONALD'S DOWN THE ROAD THAT
HAS TO CHANGE.
>> THAT'S AN ENTIRE POZOLE LIKE
I JUST DON'T I'M NOT I'M GOING
TO SLEEP FINE IF I APPROVE THIS
,IT'S IT'S NOT IT'S A SMALL
SPOT.
>> IT'S IT'S NOT EVEN THE
BIGGEST PART OF THIS POZOLE
TAXI.
ONE HAS PLENTY OF OPPORTUNITY
IS IN THE PLYMOUTH ROAD
CORRIDOR.
I JUST THINK THIS IS IT'S
CURRENTLY WHAT OUR ZONING SAYS
.
>> THERE'S SO MANY PARCELS THAT
ARE NOT OUR IDEAL ZONING.
>> I MEAN BACK TO THE BRIARWOOD
MALL THERE WAS A LOT
OF DISCUSSION OF SHOULD THIS BE
PARKING?
>> SHOULD THIS BE IS IT OK TO
PUT A TENT IN THE PARKING LOT
LIKE WE'RE BEYOND THAT THIS IS
NOT GOING TO THIS ISN'T GOING
TO RUIN EVERYTHING IF THIS IS A
DRIVE THRU, IT'S JUST NOT AND I
DON'T KNOW WHAT THE BUILDING
YOU'RE BUILDING IS BUT IT'S NOT
100 YEAR BUILDING.
IT IS THE YOU KNOW, TEN YEAR
RIGHT.
>> I MEAN WAIT WHAT?
YEAH, I'M HERE TO MODEL EVERY
TEN YEARS.
YEAH.
I MEAN THERE'S NOT AN INTENTION
THAT THIS IS GOING TO BE HERE
FOR FIFTY YEARS.
THIS IS BY THE TIME WE GET A
PROPOSAL THE BUILDING COULD BE
DONE AND GONE LIKE IT COULD BE
FIFTEEN YEARS TWENTY YEARS
BEFORE SOMETHING IS PROPOSED
FOR THIS AND YOU KNOW WELL I'VE
BEEN SITTING HERE FOR HOURS
DISCUSSING IT.
IT'S JUST NOT IT'S NOT THAT
IT'S A BIG DEAL FOR YOU BUT
IT'S NOT HUGE FOR THE CORRIDOR.
>> IT REALLY IS.
AND I JUST I DON'T SEE IT
COMMISSIONERSHIP.
I JUST WANT TO SAY SOMETHING
BRIEF AND POSITIVE BECAUSE THIS
QUARTER HAS GONE THROUGH A LOT
OF CHANGE AND UM AFTER THE
FINANCIAL CRISIS AND ALSO THE
PULL OUT OF PFIZER, ALL OF THE
SMALL SHOPS IN THIS CORRIDOR
SHUT.
SO THERE WAS A POPULAR WINE
STORE.
THERE WERE A COUPLE
OF RESTAURANTS, LOTS OF STUFF
AND THEN THE UNIVERSITY BOUGHT
THE PFIZER PROPERTY AND THIS
AREA RIGHT NOW BOTH HERE AND
THEN JUST A LITTLE BIT UP AT
NEXEN, IT'S A FLOURISHING SMALL
BUSINESS AND STUDENTS DO WALK
ALL OVER THE PLACE.
>> YOU SEE THEM WALKING AND
THEY LOVE GIANT PLASTIC BAGS
OF GROCERIES AND ALL KINDS
OF THINGS.
>> AND SO THERE IS A WAY IN
WHICH THIS AREA HAS GONE
THROUGH HAVING THINGS FOR MIXED
USE, HAVING THOSE THINGS
CLOTHES AND HAVING THOSE THINGS
COME BACK AND HAVE NEW
OWNERSHIP, SOME OF WHICH IS
MINORITY.
>> AND SO YES, I WOULD LIKE
THERE TO BE RESIDENTIAL THAT IS
A DORMS BUT I AM HAPPY FOR
THERE TO BE PLACES FOR PEOPLE
TO GO AND EAT AND SHOP AND GET
KOVATCHEV AND ASIAN GROCERY
STORES.
I MEAN IT'S ACTUALLY A PRETTY
EXCITING PART OF TOWN AND THIS
ISN'T A HUGE PARCEL SO I DON'T
FEEL LIKE WE'RE OH MY GOD WE
COULD, YOU KNOW, PUT 300 UNITS
OF HOUSING HERE.
>> I THINK THAT WE CAN GET 300
UNITS OF HOUSING ALONG HERE AND
WE CAN AND IT'S IT'S FULL
OF SERVICES AND IT COULD BE
VERY VIBRANT.
SO I JUST I DON'T LIKE THE
NOTION OF MIXED USE DOESN'T
ALWAYS HAVE TO BE EVERYTHING IN
THE SAME BUILDING IF YOU HAVE
THE SERVICES TO SUPPORT
RESIDENTIAL YOU MAY GET THEM.
AND SO I AM NOT UPSET ABOUT
THIS AND I DON'T NECESSARILY
THINK THIS PARCEL IS THE MOST
SUITED TO BECOME RESIDENTIAL.
IT'S PART OF THAT LITTLE
SHOPPING MALL.
>> SO I THINK THAT THERE ARE WE
ARE SEEING POSITIVE CHANGES ON
THIS CORRIDOR OF THE KIND
OF THING
WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE
TO SUPPORT WHAT WHAT OUR VISION
ULTIMATELY IS.
AND I DON'T SEE THIS AS A HARM
BUT WANTED TO PUT IT LESS
RELUCTANTLY.
I MEAN YEAH, ANY OTHER
COMMENTS, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT DISCUSSION FORUM
TO BEAT A DEAD LIKE THIS
DISCUSSION?
>> UM, I MEAN I THINK FOR ME
I'M NOT OPPOSED TO DRAFTERS SO
THAT'S NOT EVEN MY PROBLEM.
I THINK FOR ME THIS IS JUST
LIKE AND I'M GOING TO VOTE YES
BUT THIS IS JUST INDICATIVE
OF THE LARGER ISSUE WE'RE
SEEING THAT COMMISSIONER SILVER
I THINK LIKE BASICALLY ALLUDED
TO LIKE LOOK AT OUR AGENDA IN
TWO WEEKS WE HAVE THE CREDIT
RATING COMING BACK LIKE IF THIS
WAS TCR ONE THEY COULD PULL
THEIR TACO BELL CLOSER TO THE
STREET SO WE COULD CREATE A
BETTER PEDESTRIAN ENVIRONMENT.
SO I THINK THAT'S THE
FRUSTRATING THING HERE FOR ME
IS JUST I DON'T CARE THAT
HOUSING OR NOT IT'S THE FORM
AND I GET WHY YOU'RE DOING WHAT
YOU'RE DOING COMPLETELY.
LET ME ASK YOU A QUESTION.
WHAT IS YOUR CONSTRUCTION
TIMELINE LIKE WHEN DO YOU PLAN
TO HAVE THIS DONE IN OPEN AND
STARTING AND WHAT ARE ALL YOUR
OTHER BUILDINGS?
SO I MEAN WE'LL PROBABLY IF WE
CAN START OBVIOUSLY AFTER FROST
SO IT'S LIKE NEXT SPRING.
>> YEAH, AND DEPENDING ON HOW
FAST WE CAN PUSH THROUGH TO SEE
ONE GET THAT RECENT I JUST WANT
TO PUT A BUG IN YOUR EAR LIKE
THINK ABOUT IF YOU WERE REASON
TO TAKE ONE IF YOU WOULD WANT
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF SOMETHING
LIKE THAT LIKE HOW THAT COULD
CHANGE YOUR APPROACH BECAUSE
YOU WOULDN'T BE BOUND TO THIS
BEAUTY SO IT'S JUST SOMETHING
TO THINK ABOUT.
WE ARE JUST LEAVING THE SPACE
TOO SO WE USE THE LAND HERE.
>> BUT I DON'T SAY THAT TO YOU.
YEAH.
AND ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
ALL RIGHT.
I THINK WE'RE READY FOR A VOTE.
MR. UH, START WITH YOU BECAUSE
YOU'RE SAUVé.
>> YES.
MR. CLARKE.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
COMMISSIONER APRON'S YES.
YES.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COMMISSIONER APRON'S YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT.
MOTION CARRIES I'M SORRY BUT
YES, COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
THANK YOU
.
I DO HAVE A QUICK QUESTION
ABOUT WEST STADIUM SO WE ARE
REMODELING THAT STORE.
WHAT IS THE IMPACT FOR THAT
BECAUSE WE ARE GOING TO DO LIKE
A FULL CONTAINER STORE.
>> THEY'RE MADE OUT OF ALL
CONTAINERS.
>> YOU HAVE TO MEET WITH STAFF
BUT MEET WITH STAFF TO FIND OUT
HOW YOU CAN HELP YOU WITH THAT
BECAUSE WE DO ON THAT.
>> SO I THINK WE'LL TALK TO
SOMEONE ELSE.
YEAH.
UH, THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
DOES ANYBODY NEED A BREAK
BEFORE WE MOVE ON TO ITEM TEN,
LET'S JUST POWER THROUGH YOU
WANT TO BREAK?
>> I CAN'T TELL.
YES, OK, WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A
FIVE MINUTE BREAK TILL EIGHT
FIFTY SEVEN.
>> THANK YOU.
I'M
CALLING US BACK INTO
SESSION.
WE ARE PICKING UP WITH AGENDA
ITEM TEN A PLANNING COMMISSION
BYLAW AMENDMENT BYLAWS
AMENDMENTS AN ITEM WHICH WAS
POSTPONED FROM OUR SEPTEMBER
19TH MEETING AND WE BEGIN WITH
A STOP PRESENTATION BY MR.
LEONARD.
AND I WANT TO FIRST, UH, DRAW
YOUR ATTENTION TO I ABSOLUTELY
FULLY RECYCLED THE PACKET.
I DIDN'T CHANGE ANYTHING BUT I
WILL BE ASKING YOU TO POSTPONE
THIS AGAIN TO THE SECOND
MEETING IN NOVEMBER.
HOWEVER, ONE OF THE THINGS ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT HAS BEEN
OUTSTANDING WAS AND I I'M SORRY
THAT IT ENDED UP BEING A
SMALLER GROUP OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND I THINK SOME
OF THE VOICES WHO SPECIFICALLY
RACIST ARE ACTUALLY NOT HERE
NONETHELESS I FINALLY WAS ABLE
TO GET KEVIN MCDONALD WHO IS
THE GRAND SECOND ASSISTANT
SENIOR DEPUTY TO THE CITY
ATTORNEY AND SO THERE WERE A
COUPLE OF QUESTIONS
PARTICULARLY AROUND CONFLICT
OF INTEREST AND HERE HERE'S MY
UNDERSTANDING FRAMING OF IT.
WE HAVE A PRETTY ACTIVE GROUP
OF COMMISSIONERS HERE.
YOU ARE ALL INVOLVED IN A LOT
OF PROJECTS.
WE HAVE SEVERAL ARCHITECTS.
WE HAVE SEVERAL DEVELOPERS,
PROPERTY OWNERS AND MANAGERS
AND THERE'S BEEN SOME
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE FREQUENCY
BY WHICH RECUSALS ARE NECESSARY
CAUSING SITUATIONS SORT
OF SIMILAR TO WHAT WE FACE
TONIGHT WHERE WE HAVE A SMALLER
A SMALLER GROUP
OF COMMISSIONERS READY TO TAKE
BUSINESS.
AND SO TO THAT END ONE OF THE
QUESTIONS WAS THAT WAS RAISED
WAS IS THERE A BETTER WAY THAT
WE COULD LOOK AT THIS ONE?
A COUPLE OF THE QUESTIONS THAT
WERE RAISED AND VALIDATED
THROUGH SHARING THIS MEMO WITH
ALL OF YOU TO MAKE SURE I HAD
CAPTURED THIS CORRECTLY.
>> SO I'M GOING TO ASSERT THAT
SHOULD THERE COULD THERE BE AN
INVESTIGATION WHERE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IS REQUIRED
TO VOTE TO GRANT A CONFLICT
OF INTEREST TO A MEMBER AND A
SPECIFIC QUESTION THAT WAS
RAISED IN THAT REGARD WAS THAT
CREATES A POTENTIAL
FOR AN
INDIVIDUAL TO FEEL THAT THEY DO
HAVE A CONFLICT WHERE THE
COMMISSION IS VOTING NOT TO
THAT IS SORT OF IRRECONCILABLE.
AND SO THAT WAS A QUESTION THAT
WAS RAISED.
I'M GOING TO START BY SAYING I
THINK THAT'S A TERRIBLE IDEA.
I THINK THAT COMMISSIONERS
SHOULD HAVE THE ABILITY TO
BRING THEIR OWN LIFE
EXPERIENCE, WORK EXPERIENCE TO
MAKE THAT ASSERTION ON THEIR
OWN AND NOT BE PUT IN A
POSITION WHERE THEY HAVE TO
SOMEHOW POTENTIALLY AT ODDS
WITH THEIR COLLEAGUES BECAUSE
THERE MIGHT BE NUANCES TO THAT.
IT MIGHT BE AN EMPLOYMENT OR
RELATIONSHIP.
IT MIGHT BE SOMETHING ELSE.
AND I WOULD NEVER WANT THAT WE
WERE PUTTING COMMISSIONERS IN
THE POSITION THAT WE WERE
SOMEHOW SAYING THAT YOU HAVE TO
VOTE WHEN MAYBE YOU PERSONALLY
FELT LIKE I CAN'T DO THIS IN AN
UNBIASED MANNER.
AND THEN SECOND COULD THE USE
OF ABSTENTION VOTES BE UTILIZED
TO MAINTAIN THAT EXPERTIZE
OF SOMEBODY IN A DISCUSSION BUT
AT THE ACTUAL RECORD THE ACTUAL
DECISION POINT THAT THEY WOULD
ABSTAIN FROM A VOTE BUT
ACTUALLY PARTICIPATED IN IT AND
MY RECOMMENDATION IN THAT
REGARD IS NO, I DON'T THAT'S A
GOOD IDEA.
YES, ABSTENTIONS ARE PROVIDED
AND ROBERT'S RULES BUT THE
WHOLE NATURE OF CONFLICT
OF INTEREST IS TO AVOID NOT
ONLY REAL BUT PERCEIVED
INFLUENCE ON A DECISION AND
EVEN IN THAT CASE WHERE
SOMEBODY WAS PARTICIPATING IN
THE DIALOG OR DELIBERATION
OF SOMETHING EVEN THOUGH THEY
WEREN'T PART OF THAT FINAL
DECISION THAT OBVIOUSLY STILL
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THEM TO
INFLUENCE SOMETHING THAT
PERHAPS THEY SHOULDN'T BE.
SO THOSE ARE THE QUESTIONS AND
TO THAT POINT I'VE ASKED
KEVIN TO COME TO NOT ONLY
PROVIDE JUST SORT OF A HIGH
LEVEL SUMMARY.
A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS THAT I
HAVE POSED TO HIM IS THAT
VOTING MECHANISM IS ACTUALLY
SOMETHING THAT'S USED AT THE
CITY COUNCIL TABLE AT TIMES.
AND I'VE ASKED KEVIN TO
SPECIFICALLY TALK ABOUT WHY THE
CITY THE CITY COUNCIL A LITTLE
BIT DIFFERENT FROM THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THEN WHY ARE
BYLAWS ARE A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT?
HE MIGHT WEIGH IN ON MY
DECLARATION OF ABSTENTION BUT I
ALSO JUST WANTED TO PROVIDE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU TO ASK ANY
QUESTIONS AND SORT
OF REACQUAINT SOMETHING THAT
HOPEFULLY WE DID A GOOD JOB
DURING YOUR ORIENTATION TO SAY
THAT WHENEVER YOU HAVE A
QUESTION ABOUT IT YOU'RE ALWAYS
HE IS A RESOURCE AVAILABLE TO
YOU.
AND SO THIS IS ALSO AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SORT OF JUST
REACQUAINT YOURSELF WITH AND
I'LL STOP TURN IT TO YOU MAYBE
TO PROVIDE AN OVERVIEW OF SOME
OF THOSE QUESTIONS AND THEN
JUST WANT TO PROVIDE A LITTLE
OPPORTUNITY.
YOU HAD QUESTIONS OR FURTHER
DIALOG THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO
EXPLORE.
>> HE'S THE EXPERT ON.
SO THANKS.
BUT UM FIRST OF ALL, MY MY
TITLE IS ACTUALLY CHIEF DEPUTY
CITY ATTORNEY AND SO LIKES TO
MAKE FUN OF OUR VERY
MILITARISTIC TITLES IN THE
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE WHICH I DON'T
KNOW WHY THAT'S PART
OF MUNICIPAL LIFE BUT I WAS
JUST SAYING TO BREATH THAT I I
I'M THINKING BACK AND I THINK I
WAS STARTING I WAS ON THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR FIVE
YEARS I'VE BEEN IN THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE FOR TWENTY
AND I THINK I STARTED AT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION LIKE TWENTY
FIVE YEARS AGO TO THIS MONTH.
SO IT SEEMS APROPOS THAT I'M
HERE TODAY AND SO I JUST WANT
TO SAY A COUPLE OF THINGS JUST
TO START OUT WITH.
FIRST OF ALL, YOU KNOW,
CONFLICT OF INTERESTS ARE
SOMETIMES CLEAR BUT THE THEY
OFTEN REQUIRE ADDITIONAL
CONSIDERATION AND REALLY SINCE
I'VE IN WITH THE CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE WE'RE ALWAYS
ANALYZING THESE THINGS ON A
CASE BY CASE BASIS FOR MEMBERS
OF THE BOARDS COMMISSIONS AND
COUNSEL.
AND SO I'M JUST GOING TO
ENCOURAGE ALL OF YOU WHEN YOU
WHEN SOMETHING IS COMING UP
WHEN YOU HAVE SOME CONCERN
YOU'RE WELCOME TO CALL ME
DIRECTLY.
I CAN ALSO PUT YOU IN TOUCH
WITH ME BUT WE'RE ALWAYS HAPPY
TO TO MEET WITH PEOPLE, TO TALK
TO PEOPLE, TO WORK OUT BECAUSE
SOMETIMES IT'S I'LL JUST SAY IT
JUST CLEARER TO US SINCE WE'VE
DONE IT SO MANY TIMES AND DEALT
WITH SO MANY DIFFERENT
SITUATIONS AND SO ON CERTAINLY
ALWAYS AVAILABLE SO SO TOUCHED
UPON.
AND I THINK I THINK WHEN I
LOOKED AT THESE QUESTIONS IT
WAS CLEAR THAT SOMEBODY WAS
TRYING TO MAYBE LOOK AT WHAT
THE COUNCIL IS DOING VERSUS
WHAT THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
DOING.
SO LET ME TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT VERY QUICKLY ABOUT THE
PURPOSE OF THESE ETHICAL RULES
AT THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
MAYBE THE COUNCIL AS WELL.
BUT YOUR RULES ARE DESIGNED TO
PROTECT THE INTEGRITY OF THE
COMMISSION AND YOU HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT THAT IN TERMS
OF TWO LEVELS.
THERE'S THERE'S SUBSTANTIVE OR
ACTUAL INTEGRITY MEANING THIS
IS GOING TO BE A FAIR PROCESS.
IT'S GOING TO BE EVEN HANDED
ALL THE PETITIONER IS GOING TO
BE TREATED CREATED IN THE SAME
WAY ALL THE MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC WILL HAVE TO GO THROUGH
THE PROCEDURAL RULES TO SPEAK
IN THE SAME WAY.
BUT ALSO YOU NEED TO THINK
ABOUT APPARENT INTEGRITY
MEANING IT NEEDS TO IT NEEDS TO
NOT ONLY BE FAIR BUT IT NEEDS
TO LOOK FAIR TO ANY ONE
OBSERVER AND THAT'S THERE ARE
THERE ARE TWO SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT THINGS IF SOMEBODY
TURNS ON A MEETING THEY
SHOULDN'T BE KIND OF WONDERING
,WELL, WHY IS THE PERSON WHO
LIVES NEXT DOOR TO THE BUILDING
TALKING ABOUT THE BUILDING?
RIGHT.
AND THAT WILL KIND OF TIE INTO
MAYBE SOME OF BRETTS YOU KNOW,
BRETZ RECOMMENDATIONS ABOUT NOT
CHANGING THESE THINGS IN TERMS
OF ABSTENTION ONCE ONCE AS YOU
KNOW UNDER THE CURRENT BYLAWS
AND I DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANYTHING BEING RECOMMENDED TO
CHANGE WHEN THERE IS A A
CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
THE PLANNING COMMISSIONERS ARE
ASKED TO DO FOUR THINGS.
FIRST YOU YOU DECLARE THE
CONFLICT YOU YOU YOU DISCLOSE
YOU CEASE TO PARTICIPATE ANY
CONVERSATION AND OF COURSE YOU
LEAVE THE MEETING AND DON'T
PARTICIPATE IN THE VOTE.
IT'S A RELATIVELY SIMPLE
PROCESS ONCE ONCE THAT DECISION
IS MADE THAT THERE MAY BE OR IS
A CONFLICT.
BUT I THINK THE INTEREST TO
START OUT WITH I JUST WANTED TO
KIND OF TALK ABOUT THE FACT
THAT YOU KNOW, THIS IS A
COMMISSION THAT'S DESIGNED
ESSENTIALLY FOR OBJECTIVE
DECISION MAKING.
YOUR YOU'RE APPLYING STANDARDS.
YOU ARE MOSTLY FOR THE WELL,
YOU'RE REALLY AN ADMINISTRATIVE
BODY, NOT A LEGISLATIVE ONE.
COUNCIL IS A LEGISLATIVE BODY.
THEY HAVE A VERY SPECIFIC
INDIVIDUAL CONSTITUENCY.
THEY'RE THEY'RE THE BODY IS
KIND OF DESIGNED TO DO
SOMETHING DIFFERENT ALSO UNLIKE
AND SO WHEN THEY'RE MAKING
LEGISLATIVE DECISIONS THEY'RE
POLICY DECISIONS.
SOME OF THEM ARE VERY
SUBJECTIVE AND THAT'S SORT
OF THE BACKGROUND FOR THEIR
DECISION MAKING.
BUT REALLY WHAT GUIDES THE
COUNCIL IS THERE IS LITERALLY A
CHARTER PROVISION THAT REQUIRES
THEM TO VOTE YOU DON'T HAVE
THAT BUT IT REALLY SAYS ON ANY
MATTER YOU SHALL VOTE EXCEPT
WITHIN GIVEN CIRCUMSTANCES THEY
HAVE ETHICAL RULES JUST LIKE
YOU DO.
THERE'S VERY SPECIFIC STATUTORY
ANOTHER CONFLICT OF INTEREST
REASONS WHY THEY WOULD NOT VOTE
.
BUT THAT'S REALLY WHAT THAT'S
REALLY WHAT THE MAIN DIFFERENCE
IS.
IT REALLY SAYS SO THE CHARTER
REALLY SAYS LOOK, BASICALLY YOU
HAVE TO VOTE UNLESS YOU'RE
EXCUSED BY A VOTE OF SIX OF THE
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL.
SO ALL OF THE ALL OF THE RULES
REGARDING ETHICS GO BACK TO
THAT.
AND SO THAT'S KIND OF A
FUNDAMENTAL DIFFERENCE.
BUT THE THING I WANTED TO TO
KIND OF POINT OUT IS THAT THE
UNDERLYING POLICIES OF CONFLICT
OF INTEREST ARE STILL THE SAME.
AND THE INTERESTING THING IS I
DON'T KNOW IN TWENTY YEARS I'M
NOT AWARE OF ANY TIME WHEN A
COUNCIL MEMBER HAS COME FORWARD
AND SAID I HAVE A CONFLICT
SOMETIMES THAT'S WITH OUR
OFFICE, SOMETIMES WITHOUT OUR
OFFICE CONSULTING WHERE WHERE
ARE COUNCIL MEMBERS SAID I HAVE
A CONFLICT AND THE REST OF THE
COUNCIL DID NOT VOTE TO RECUSE
THEM.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT OF A I DON'T
WANT TO CALL IT A I WON'T CALL
IT A RUBBER STAMP.
THEY HAVE THE DECISION TO
DECIDE BUT EVEN AT THEIR BODY I
THINK THE IDEA IS TO TRY TO
PRESERVE THE INTEGRITY OF THE
BODY AND IF SOMEBODY BELIEVES
THAT THEY HAVE A CONFLICT, THEY
STEP AWAY.
BUT I THINK THAT I THINK THAT
THAT THE OTHER QUESTION THAT
CAME UP THAT I JUST WANTED TO
KIND OF TALK ABOUT IS THIS
WHOLE IDEA OF ABSTENTION AND
AGAIN THE PROBLEM WITH THAT
REALLY IS, YOU KNOW, ESPECIALLY
THE PERCEPTION THAT PROBLEM
WITH THAT APPARENT INTEGRITY IF
IF SOMEBODY HAS STATED THAT
THEY HAVE A CONFLICT, YOU'RE
YOU'RE CERTAINLY GOING TO HAVE
YOU KNOW OR I'LL SAY THIS EVEN
MAYBE WORSE THAN THAT IF YOU
CHANGE THE RULES SO THEY WE'RE
NOT GOING TO STATE THAT THEY
HAVE A CONFLICT BUT THEY WERE
PARTICIPATING SOMEWHAT IS STILL
GOING TO BE WONDERING WHY YOU
KNOW, WHY IS THE PERSON VOTING
ON SOMETHING THAT HIS EMPLOYER
OWNS?
WHY WHY IS SHE MAKING A
DECISION THAT AFFECTS THAT
AFFECTS HER FAMILY'S BUSINESS
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT?
AND SO THOSE THE CONCERNS THAT
YOU HAVE BUT ALSO THE I THINK
ONE OF THE UNDERLYING THINGS
THAT YOU HAVE TO THINK ABOUT IS
UM CONFLICTS ARE YOU KNOW,
THERE'S TWO PARTS OF THIS THAT
ARE VERY INDIVIDUAL AND I THINK
PEOPLE SOMETIMES GET CONFUSED
THINKING ABOUT THAT THE
CONFLICT IS ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT THE PERSON CAN MAKE AN
OBJECTIVE VOTE AND IT'S NEVER
ABOUT THAT AT ALL.
WE'VE HAD MANY PEOPLE OVER THE
YEARS WHO CALL AND SAY WELL, I
DON'T THINK THIS IS REALLY A
CONFLICT BECAUSE I CAN I CAN
OBJECTIVELY VOTE ON THIS AND
IT'S REALLY NOT WHETHER THE
PERSON HAS THE ABILITY TO MAKE
A FAIR DECISION.
IT'S REALLY IF THAT PERSON IS
PERCEIVED TO BE DOING SOMETHING
THAT'S UNFAIR THAT PERSON
SHOULD STEP AWAY.
IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH WITH
A PERSONAL ABILITY TO DO IT.
BUT ALSO YOU HAVE TO THINK
ABOUT THE FACT THAT IF YOU WERE
TO IF THIS BODY WAS TO TAKE ON
KIND OF EVERY DECISION AND YOU
WANTED TO VOTE ON IT FOR
SOMEBODY TO RECUSE THEMSELVES,
THAT PUTS PEOPLE IN A VERY
DIFFICULT POSITION BECAUSE
SOMETIMES YOU HAVE, YOU KNOW,
CONFLICTING INTERESTS,
FIDUCIARY OR OTHERWISE.
I JUST CAN'T IMAGINE I THINK
WHEN I WAS ON THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR EXAMPLE, I
WORKED I WORKED IN A LAW FIRM
AND OFTEN ONE OF MY FIRM'S
CLIENTS WOULD HAVE SOMETHING
THAT THAT I MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE
BEEN INVOLVED IN BUT I STEPPED
AWAY FROM IT BECAUSE THE
PERCEPTION OF THAT IF PEOPLE
KNOW THAT IS IS SOMEWHAT
PROBLEMATIC TO THE PERCEPTION
OF THE COMMISSION
BEING A FAIR
BODY.
BUT ALSO I'LL JUST GIVE ANOTHER
EXAMPLE IF YOU KNOW YOU COULD
REALLY BE IF IF SOMEBODY CAME
FORWARD AND SAID I HAVE A
CONFLICT, I DON'T REALLY THINK
I SHOULD BE VOTING ON THIS AND
THEY'VE COME TO THAT CONCLUSION
THEMSELVES, YOU MAY BE PUTTING
THEM IN A POSITION WHERE
THEY'RE THERE THEY'RE FORCED TO
TO MAKE A VOTE.
IT'S CONTRARY TO THEIR EMPLOYER
OR THEIR FAMILY AND THAT MAY BE
VERY DIFFICULT.
IT'S LIKE NO, WE WE WOULD LIKE
YOU TO VOTE ON THIS WHEN THAT
PERSON MAY HAVE TO VOTE.
I'LL JUST SAY FOR YOU KNOW,
THEY THEY MAY KNOW THAT THE
HOTEL THAT'S IN FRONT OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DECISION MEETS ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS THEY NEED TO VOTE
FOR IT.
BUT THAT MAY REALLY HAVE A
NEGATIVE EFFECT ON THEIR ON THE
HOTEL THEY WORK FOR NEXT DOOR.
RIGHT.
IT'S JUST IT'S JUST A TERRIBLE
POSITION TO PUT PEOPLE IN.
AND SO I THINK THAT'S WHY
YOU'RE HEARING FROM STAFF THAT
THE RECOMMENDATION OF COURSE IS
TO LEAVE THOSE THINGS IN PLACE.
AND I AND I KNOW BRETT
MENTIONED THAT MAYBE SOME
OF THE FOLKS WHO HAD SOME
CONCERNS ARE NOT HERE BUT I
WILL KIND OF INVITE IF ANYONE'S
LISTENING TO THIS MEETING OR
WANT TO LISTEN TO IT ANY WAY,
THEY'RE ALWAYS HAPPY TO REACH
OUT.
I MEAN I'M HAPPY TO TALK TO
THEM FURTHER ABOUT THIS BUT I
ALSO CERTAINLY WOULD LOVE TO
ENTERTAIN ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU HAVE.
BUT WE JUST WANTED TO TALK
ABOUT GENERALLY TO KIND OF PUT
IT IN CONTEXT.
THE OTHER THING THAT I WOULD
MENTION IS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION PROBABLY HAS THE
MOST ROBUST ROBUST SET OF OF
OF GUIDELINES REGARDING
CONFLICT OF INTERESTS ACTUALLY
OUT OF ALL THE BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS AND I THINK
HISTORICALLY IT'S ALWAYS BEEN
THAT WAY BECAUSE THERE IS AN
INTEREST IN OF COURSE
MAINTAINING THAT OBJECTIVITY
AND MAINTAINING THAT THAT
FAIRNESS.
I WILL JUST TELL YOU THAT, YOU
KNOW, REGARDS TO LAND THESE
CONFLICTS ARE NOT EASY.
I'VE BEEN TO AT LEAST TWO TO
LAND USE INSTITUTES WITH
ATTORNEYS FROM AROUND THE
COUNTRY AND WE SIT FOR TWO
HOURS TALKING ONLY ABOUT
CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
IT'S AN ISSUE THAT COMES UP
IT'S VERY HARD TO IT'S VERY
HARD SOMETIMES TO TO UNDERSTAND
VERY FACT DEPENDENT.
BUT I I WOULD SUGGEST I WOULD
SUGGEST THAT THE RULES THAT YOU
HAVE IN FRONT OF YOU ARE ROBUST
FOR THAT REASON.
IT'S GOT SOME EXAMPLES IF
ANYONE IF ANY QUESTIONS YOU
HAVE PLENTY OF PEOPLE TO CALL
AND ASK AND WE CAN WORK THROUGH
THOSE ISSUES.
BUT I THINK THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CERTAINLY SHOULD BE
AT LEAST CAUTIOUS ABOUT SORT
OF TRYING TO COME UP WITH HARD
AND FAST RULES OR TRYING TO
HAVE THE WHOLE COMMISSION SORT
OF DECIDE WHETHER OR NOT
SOMEBODY HAS A A CONFLICT OR
NOT.
I CERTAINLY YOU AS I AS I SAID,
IT'S A IT'S A CASE BY CASE
BASIS.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT SOMETIMES
TO DISCERN.
BUT I THINK THAT THE WHOLE
PROCESS IS SORT OF SET OUT SO
THAT SO THAT A BODY IS
IMPARTIAL AND ALSO SEEMS
IMPARTIAL IN TERMS OF THE
INTEGRITY OF THE COMMISSION.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS FOR MR
MACDONALD?
COMMISSIONER SAUVé?
THANK YOU FOR ALL OF THAT.
>> I THINK ONE OF THE OTHER
DISCUSSION POINTS I THINK
THERE'S A RESPONSIBILITY AS THE
COMMISSION IS APPOINTED BUILT
AROUND A DIVERSE EXPERTIZE TO
COVER THE REVIEW AS WELL.
IT'S I HAVE TWO ARCHITECTS WHO
WANT TO USE THIS BUT RIGHT NOW
WE DON'T HAVE A LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT SOMETIMES.
YOU KNOW, I THINK THERE'S MORE
THAN ONE KIND OF DEVELOPMENT
POTENTIAL BUT I AM CURIOUS
THERE ARE DECISIONS OR INSIGHTS
TO MARKET FACTORS OR A VARIETY
OF ISSUES THAT I DO THINK A LOT
OF TIMES THE COMMISSION BRINGS
THE EXPERTIZE THAT MIGHT NOT BE
FROM STAFF REVIEW FOR THE STAFF
PRESENT.
>> SO I GUESS I'M WONDERING DO
YOU SEE ANY WAY IS TO THINK IF
SOMEBODY IS RECUSING WE KNOW
THAT THERE'S A KNOWLEDGE BASE
HOW WE BRING THAT EXPERTIZE
BACK TO THE PANEL A THIRD PARTY
PARTICIPANT THAT ISN'T A
PETITIONER OR A COMMISSIONER
ALTERNATE SORT OF THING.
>> YEAH, WELL I'LL TRY THAT.
WE IF WE IDENTIFY THAT WE CAN
STILL BRING THAT EXPERTIZE SO I
CAN'T SIT HERE AND SAY LIKE
THAT IS ONE OF THE BENEFITS I
REALLY VALUE LIKE THAT.
I CAN ASK YOU ABOUT A BUILDING
CODE REQUIREMENT OR I CAN ASK
COMMISSIONER LEE MAYBE ABOUT
THE CHALLENGES OF OFFICE RENTAL
OR HOW THEY'RE EVOLVING BUT IF
ONE OF THOSE PERSPECTIVES IS
DETERMINED TO BE VALUABLE, IT'S
HARD FOR ME TO DO IT AT THE
MEETING.
>> BUT IF IT'S SOMETHING THAT I
GET THAT I NEED TO FOLLOW UP ON
OR I'M THAT QUESTIONS RAISED
OUTSIDE OF THAT STAFF CAN DO IT
BEST TO TRY TO BRING THAT
EXPERTIZE TO THE REVIEW.
YOU'RE RIGHT.
A LOT OF TIMES WE MIGHT NOT
HAVE IT IN-HOUSE BUT IF THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT'S DESIRED I'M
HAPPY TO TRY TO BRING THAT
EXPERTIZE IT MAY NOT IT
WOULDN'T BE COMING FROM THAT
PERSON AT THAT POINT.
BUT WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, ALL
YOU ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES THAT
HAVE THAT EXPERTIZE SO WE CAN
ALWAYS TRY TO SEEK THAT OUT
THROUGH OTHER CREATIVE WAYS.
>> WHAT WOULD THAT LOOK LIKE
PROCEDURALLY SAY IF LIKE I'M
RECUSING MYSELF THE COMMISSION
DECIDES THEY'D LIKE TO HAVE AN
ARCHITECT LIKE COME SO THAT I
BELIEVE YOU JUST MEANT TO SAY
ANOTHER ARCHITECT ARCHITECTS
COME WOULD IT BE I'M JUST
THINKING THROUGH THE SCENARIO
THAT IT WOULD BE MAYBE THE
MEETING BEFORE IN COMMISSION
CROSS-BUSINESS MAYBE OR SOME
OTHER POINT I WOULD RAISE I
PLAN TO RECUSE MYSELF AND THAT
THE COMMISSION WOULD THEN VOTE
IF THEY WANT SOMETHING.
>> I GUESS IT'S JUST LIKE HOW
WE WOULD DO THAT AHEAD OF TIME.
YEAH, IT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
IT COULD HAPPEN IN A COUPLE
DIFFERENT WAYS IF WE KNEW THAT
THERE WAS GOING TO A RECUSAL
AND AND BECAUSE OF THAT UM WE
COULD SHARE THAT INFORMATION
WITH THE COMMISSION AND AHEAD
OF TIME FIND OUT THAT THAT'S
GOING TO BE REALLY VALUABLE
PERSPECTIVE.
THAT WOULD BE ONE WAY TO DO IT.
I ANOTHER WAY WOULD BE THAT AND
LET'S TAKE A STEP BACK EVEN
WITHOUT RECUSALS IF THERE IF
THERE IS SOME OF THAT EXPERTIZE
YOU'RE ALWAYS WELCOME TO ASK I
ASK THAT YOU KNOW, WE DO OUR
BEST TO TRY AND BRING A LOT
OF EXPERTIZE FROM STAFF
PERSPECTIVE AND SOMETIMES WE'RE
ABLE TO ANSWER THOSE QUESTIONS
AND SOMETIMES WE'RE NOT ABLE TO
ANSWER THOSE QUESTIONS.
IT'S IMPRACTICAL FOR US TO HAVE
ALL THOSE REVIEWERS AT EVERY
MEETING BUT ALWAYS WHEN YOU
HAVE A QUESTION WE WILL
ENDEAVOR TO TRY TO FIND THE
DETAILS OF THAT AHEAD OF TIME
IN THAT CASE WHEN WE CAN FIND
OUT AHEAD OF TIME.
ABSOLUTELY WE CAN TRY AND
ARRANGE THAT EXPERTIZE BRING
THAT PERSPECTIVE THAT THAT
COULD BE BRINGING ACTUALLY
SOMEBODY TO THE MEETING OR IT
COULD BE JUST TRYING TO CONSULT
WITH THAT PERSON.
WE DO THE SAME THING THAT WE
WOULD DO WITH CITY STAFF IN ALL
THOSE CASES.
MY FIRST PASS HER REACTION TO
THAT WOULD BE TO MAKE SURE THAT
IT IS RELATING TO ONE OF THE
STANDARDS THAT IS IS AT PLAY
HERE.
SO LIKE IN THE CASE OF A BY
RIGHTS I PLAN, WE DON'T REALLY
HAVE ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS I
MIGHT SAY LIKE WELL WHAT WHAT
DO YOU HOPE TO GET FROM THIS?
BUT WHAT IF IN THE CASE OF LIKE
A PIONEER DEVELOPMENT IF WE
WERE TRYING TO EXPLORE
SOMETHING ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY
OR WHAT HAVE YOU, WE COULD
DEFINITELY BRING THAT AND IF WE
COULDN'T ACCOMPLISH THAT AT IN
ADVANCE OF THAT MEETING, THAT
WOULD BE A GREAT REASON TO
POSTPONE SOMETHING BECAUSE IT'S
SOMETHING THAT YOU WANT MORE
INFORMATION ON AS THE REMAINING
COMMISSION TO SAY LIKE HEY, I
DON'T FEEL LIKE WE'RE GETTING
THE RIGHT DETAIL OR
UNDERSTANDING OF THIS
PARTICULAR ASPECT.
CAN STAFF HELP US BRING MORE
OF THAT AND THEN WE WOULD
ENDEAVOR TO TRY TO PROVIDE THAT
SO IT COULD HAPPEN BEFORE IT
COULD HAPPEN DURING AND RESULT
IN POSTPONEMENT.
FRANKLY, A LITTLE HAPPY TO SORT
OF PUT TOGETHER SOME SCENARIOS
IF THAT WOULD HELP.
I DON'T WANT TO I DON'T WANT TO
SYSTEMATIZE IT TOO MUCH BECAUSE
I DON'T WANT TO FORECLOSE THE
OPPORTUNITY.
I DON'T WANT IT TO BE LIKE OH
YOU DIDN'T YOU KNOW, I WASN'T
RAISED AHEAD OF TIME SO WE
DON'T DO THAT AS A REMINDER,
THE COMMISSION ALWAYS HAS THREE
DECISIONS ON ANY PETITION.
YOU CAN APPROVE IT, YOU CAN
DENY IT OR YOU CAN SEEK MORE
INFORMATION THROUGH A
POSTPONEMENT OR TABLING.
YOU SHOULD ALWAYS REMEMBER THAT
AND WHEN WHETHER THAT'S AS PART
OF A RECUSAL OR ANYTHING ELSE,
THOSE ARE ALWAYS OPTIONS
AVAILABLE TO YOU.
>> AND IF YOU CAN'T REACH ONE
OF THE FIRST TWO CONCLUSIONS,
THAT'S THE APPROPRIATE
CONCLUSION TO SAY I'D LIKE TO
POSTPONE THIS BECAUSE I NEED
MORE INFORMATION IN THE
FOLLOWING REGARD AND THAT WOULD
BE A GREAT EXAMPLE OF INVOKING
THAT TOOL.
>> OK, THAT'S JUST IN TERMS
OF WHAT ASSISTANCE NEED TO BE
IN PLACE THE SAME WAY WE'RE
JUST HAVING A DISCUSSION LIKE
SHOULD WE VOTE IF YOU'RE
ACCUSING BAD IDEA SHOULD WE
VOTE IF WE GET EXPERT WITNESSES
NOT NECESSARY BUT MAYBE I JUST
KIND OF RAISE IT AS A TALKING
POINT AND A REMINDER FOR MYSELF
TO MAYBE NOTIFY EVERYBODY.
>> SO IF ANY YOU KNOW, IF
ANYBODY IS ACCUSING TO NOTIFY
AS EARLY AS POSSIBLE THE REST
OF THE COMMISSION CAN MAKE ANY
DECISIONS RELATIVE TO
ADDITIONAL VOICES AND SUPPORT.
>> SO THE OTHER IDEA I JUST
WANT TO KIND OF HEAR MORE
THOUGHTS IS WE JUST CHANGE OUR
BYLAWS FROM SIX TO FIVE.
>> RIGHT.
THAT SEEM TO BE THE FIRST
RECOMMENDATION.
I'LL PUT THE VOTING IN NUMBERS.
I KNOW THAT THERE IS AN
ALTERNATE KIND OF PROPOSED AT
ONE POINT TO ARE THERE ANY
OTHER TOOLS THAT SEEM
APPROPRIATE RELATIVE TO THE
NUMBERS AS AS WE'RE SEEING JUST
TO LAY EVERYTHING BACK ON THE
TABLE FOR DISCUSSION?
>> YEAH, WE DID EXPLORE
ALTERNATIVE THAT'S NOT POSSIBLE
UNDER THE STATE LEGISLATIVE
FRAMEWORK.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SPECIFICALLY ALLOWS THAT
EXAMPLE WAS INVOKED.
IT'S NOT PERMISSIBLE AT
PLANNING COMMISSION IN FACT,
PLANNING COMMISSION LEGISLATION
SPECIFIES THAT YOU CAN HAVE
BOARDS OF A CERTAIN SIZE WHERE
THE LARGEST BOARD THAT CAN BE
SPECIFIED IN THAT REGARD SO IN
SHORT I DON'T THINK THERE ARE
OTHER REDUCING THAT TO FIVE
WOULD BE ONE MECHANISM TO DO
THAT APPOINTING LESS
EXPERIENCED AND ACTIVE MEMBERS
WOULD BE ANOTHER WAY TO DO THAT
THAT HAS ITS DOWNSIDES
.
>> NO, I WASN'T LOOKING AT YOU
NEED SOME IT ADVICE WE DO THE
OTHER MR. KOWALSKI NOT I IT'S
IMPERFECT YOU KNOW AND WE DID
EXPORT BOTH OF THOSE.
>> I THINK SHIFTING TO FIVE IS
REASONABLE BUT STILL THE
MAJORITY OF PLANNING COMMISSION
THAT'S WHY IT'S BEING POSTPONED
AGAIN BECAUSE I NEED THAT
CHAPTER EIGHT AMENDMENTS TO BE
CONSIDERED ADOPTED BEFORE YOU
CAN OFFICIALLY ADOPT THAT
BECAUSE IT WOULDN'T BE
INCONSISTENT JUST TRYING TO
KEEP THAT ORDER IN PLACE.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF OTHER TOOLS
NOW JUST WANT TO HAVE THE
CONVERSATION.
>> THANKS, COMMISSIONER.
I REALIZE I DIDN'T READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION BEFORE BUMPING
US TO DISCUSSION BUT SINCE THIS
ISN'T A PUBLIC HEARING I THINK
IT'S OK BUT YEAH THAT'S FINE.
>> OK, COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE
.
>> SO I JUST WANT TO SAY AS
SOMEONE WHO IS OUTSIDE
PROFESSIONALLY OF THE PLANNING
MLU UM I DO THINK THAT THERE IS
ALSO STRENGTH TO NOT HAVING AN
EXPERT IN EVERYTHING YOU KNOW
RIGHT NOW IT WOULD BE GREAT TO
HAVE AN ELECTRICIAN ON THIS
BOARD AND SOMEBODY WHO WORKED
FOR DTT OR A SUBSIDIARY OR
CONSUMERS PERHAPS WHICH WOULD
HELP ANSWER A LOT OF QUESTIONS
I THINK THAT WE HAVE AND I KNOW
YOU KNOW SHANNON BRANDELL WAS
IMMENSELY HELPFUL FOR LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT THINGS THAT THAT CAME
UP.
BUT THERE'S GOING TO BE LOTS
OF THAT.
THERE'S GOING TO BE THERE ARE
WATER RESOURCE PEOPLE THERE
AREN'T YOU KNOW AND I AND I
THINK THAT THERE IS A DANGER
OF THINKING THAT YOUR EXPERTIZE
AND I'M NOT THIS IS THAT
ANYONE'S EXPERTIZE IS THE MOST
IMPORTANT EXPERTIZE RELATIVE TO
A PROJECT BECAUSE OF COURSE IF
YOU HAVE UNDERSTANDING OR
KNOWLEDGE ABOUT A PROJECT OR A
LOCATION THEN THAT IS REALLY
PARAMOUNT TO YOU AND DOESN'T
MAYBE INCLUDE SOME OF THE
OUTWARD PERSPECTIVE.
SO I THINK WITH EVERY
DEVELOPMENT WE SEE THERE IS
THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE IN THE
KNOW ON THAT DEVELOPMENT WHO
AREN'T ON THIS BOARD AND WHO
AREN'T STAFF AND I THINK THAT
IT'S IT'S FINE.
I MEAN WE MAKE DECISIONS ON
THOSE ALL THE TIME AND NOT
HAVING THAT INTERNAL
PERSPECTIVE IS ACTUALLY OK NOT
YOU KNOW, I MEAN IT WOULD BE
GREAT IF WE COULD HAVE THE BEST
PERSPECTIVE ON EVERYTHING EVERY
TIME BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY
SOMETIMES YOU KNOW, THE
SUSTAINABILITY ISN'T THERE OR
THE AND WE JUST MISS IT BECAUSE
THERE ISN'T SOMEBODY WHO'S
THINKING THAT ALL THE TIME.
BUT I THINK IT'S PROBABLY OK
THAT WE ALL JUST APPROACH THIS
THE SAME WAY EVERY TIME, WHICH
IS I'M GOING TO DO MY BEST IF I
SEE THERE'S A LOT OF LANDMARK
TREES GETTING TORN DOWN I'M
GOING TO AS A MEMBER OF THIS
BOARD SEE WHAT I CAN DO TO
UNDERSTAND THAT AND WHETHER
THAT'S ME SEEKING OUT EXPERTIZE
OR GOING TO STAFF OR HOWEVER
THAT WORKS.
BUT I THINK THAT'S ALWAYS GOING
TO BE AN ISSUE WHETHER THE
PEOPLE ARE ON THE BOARD OR NOT
.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
QUESTIONS?
NO HARD QUESTIONS FOR KEVIN .
>> AT LEAST ONE HARD QUESTION.
NO.
>> I THINK BECAUSE WE'RE JUST
BEING TOLD THAT IT'S REALLY NOT
REQUIRED A HARD QUESTION AND
I'M NOT SURE WHY LET'S TRY TO
ENCOURAGE YOU.
>> I HAVE A QUESTION FOR YOU,
MR. LEONARD.
THE THIS IS NOT ABOUT THE
VOTING BUT WELL, IT'S ABOUT THE
BYLAWS AMENDMENTS.
UH, SO I KNOW THAT THE PROPOSAL
IS TO REMOVE TO CHANGE SIX TO
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE FIVE
COMMISSIONERS BUT IN ORDER TO
CHANGE THE BYLAWS I THOUGHT WE
WERE KEEPING THE HIGHER
THRESHOLD.
BUT WHAT I SEE HERE NOW IS THAT
IT'S BEEN CHANGED TO SAY AN
AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF THE
MAJORITY OF THE COMMISSION
MEMBERS PRESENT.
>> SO THAT IS FOR ACTIONS OTHER
THAN ACTING ON A PLAN THAT
SPECIFICALLY SAYS AMENDMENTS TO
THESE BYLAWS.
SO IT'S ON PAGE ELEVEN.
>> IT'S ARTICLE FOURTEEN POINT
ONE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO
THESE BYLAWS MAY BE APPROVED AT
ANY REGULAR MEETING BY AN
AFFIRMATIVE VOTE OF A MAJORITY
OF COMMISSION MEMBERS PRESENT
SORRY.
I THINK WE WERE TALKING BEFORE
WE WERE THERE WERE A COUPLE
OF CONDITIONS THE BYLAWS
WHETHER THERE WAS A REMAINING
QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER A HIGHER
STANDARD WOULD STILL BE
REQUIRED DESPITE THE CHANGES
THAT WAS ONE THAT WE HAD
DEBATED AND I THOUGHT IN THE
COMMISSION HAD DETERMINED THAT
JUST THE MAJORITY OF THOSE
PRESENT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE
FOR THAT SO THAT THE LOWER
STANDARD A LOWER STANDARD THAN
PLAN ACTION.
HOWEVER, I BELIEVE SIX VOTES
WILL STILL BE REQUIRED TO GO
INTO CLOSED SESSION.
>> YES, THAT'S BECAUSE OF OPEN
MEETINGS ACT I PRESUME REQUIRES
NO.
I HAVE A QUESTION FOR YOU, MR.
MCDONALD.
WOULD THAT BE WOULD THAT BE
TYPICAL THAT CHANGES TO THE
BYLAWS WOULD HAVE A LOWER
STANDARD OF REVIEW OF NO LIKE I
THOUGHT WE WERE DOING A
SUPERMAJORITY FOR CHANGES TO
THE BYLAWS.
YEAH, I MEAN I MEAN I'LL SAY
THIS I DO NOT THINK THAT'S I
DON'T THINK THAT'S NORMAL BUT
IF THAT'S WHAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WOULD LIKE IT
CERTAINLY WITHIN YOUR PURVIEW
TO CHANGE YOUR BYLAWS TO DO
THAT SUBJECT TO CITY COUNCIL
APPROVAL, DO YOU THINK IT'S
ADVISABLE?
>> UM, WELL TO BE PUT ON THE
SPOT I DON'T I WOULDN'T
RECOMMEND IT BUT IT'S THERE
THERE'S NO YOU THERE'S NO
THERE'S NO I'LL JUST SAY THIS
IT'S REALLY IT'S REALLY MY
OPINION BASED ON SORT OF YEARS
OF EXPERIENCE OF DOING THIS.
THERE'S NO THERE'S SORT OF NOT
A LEGAL REASON WHY YOU WOULD
WANT TO DO IT.
BUT I THINK THE CONCERN
OF COURSE IS THAT, YOU KNOW,
YOU SHOULD BE YOUR YOUR RULES
ARE YOU KNOW, IT'S EVERYONE
HOLDING THE RULES OUT AND AND
WHEN YOU'RE MAKING CHANGES TO
THE RULES, MAYBE YOU WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT YOU HAVE YOU
KNOW, YOU'RE NOT DOING IT JUST
BECAUSE THERE A FEW PEOPLE
THERE THAT ARE THERE AT A
MEETING, COULD THAT POSSIBLY BE
MISUSED?
IT COULD NOW KEEP IN MIND
THERE'S STILL A REQUIREMENT IN
THIS PARAGRAPH THAT THEY HAVE
TO BE SUBMITTED IN WRITING
AHEAD OF TIME SO PEOPLE SHOULD
HAVE SOME KNOWLEDGE OF THIS
HAPPENING.
BUT IT'S REALLY YOU KNOW, IT'S
REALLY SOLELY UP TO THE
COMMISSION WHETHER THEY DO
THAT.
I'M HAPPY TO REPORT BACK AND
I'D HAVE TO LOOK AT OTHER
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS BUT I
DON'T THINK THAT THAT'S I DO
NOT THINK THAT THAT'S TYPICAL
OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS IN
THE CITY THAT THERE WOULD BE A
KIND OF A LOWER NUMBER
OF PEOPLE OR KIND OF A MAJORITY
OF THOSE PRESENT TO DO THIS AND
I'M NOT SURE IF BRETT WHO'S THE
REASON WHY I ASSUME THAT THIS
CAME FROM A SUGGESTION ONE
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
IT WAS BUT I WOULD JUST POINT
OUT AS PART OF THE MOST
POSTPONE ITEM EVER ON THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THIS WILL
BE COMING BACK IN THE SECOND
MEETING IN NOVEMBER PART THAT
IS THE CITY ATTORNEY WILL BE
REVIEWING THESE NOW THAT WE
KNOW THAT THEY'RE I'M NOT
HEARING ANY PROPOSED CHANGES TO
THE CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
THAT WAS SORT OF ONE OF THE
OUTSTANDING QUESTIONS BASED ON
THE DISCUSSION I'M HEARING
SUPPORT FOR THE PERSPECTIVES
THAT WE BROUGHT THAT THEY'RE
GOOD AS THEY ARE.
AND SO AS OVER THAT TIME PERIOD
I COULD WORK WITH KEVIN AND HIS
COLLEAGUES TO COMPARE THAT TO
OTHER BOARDS OR JUST TAKE YOUR
DIRECTION TO MAYBE STRIKE THE
WORD PRESENCE WHICH WOULD SAY
THE MAJORITY OF THE COMMISSION
WHICH WOULD HAVE THE EFFECT
OF FIVE COMMISSIONERS.
I'D BE INTERESTED TO HEAR FROM
OTHER COMMISSIONERS ABOUT THIS
.
I WOULD I PERSONALLY WOULD
WOULD LEAVE IT AT AFFIRMATIVE
VOTE OF SIX SIX OUT OF NINE TWO
THIRDS THAT'S MY MY EXPERIENCE
ON OTHER BOARDS AND VOTING
BODIES THAT I'M ON THAT THERE'S
A HIGHER THRESHOLD TO CHANGE
THE GOVERNING RULES.
UM SO BUT IF I'M IN THE
MINORITY THAT THEN I'M IN THE
MINORITY SO I'D BE INTERESTED
TO HEAR WHAT OTHER PEOPLE THINK
ABOUT THAT.
COMMISSIONER, I WOULD AGREE
THAT CHANGING THE RULES IS TO
BE A MAJORITY OF WHOEVER IS
PRESIDENT IS PROBABLY NOT AS
JUST TO CHANGE RULES FOR
PRESIDENTS.
A SECOND OF YOU SAID I THINK
THAT ANYBODY WHO'D BE OPPOSED
TO REQUIRING AN AFFIRMATIVE
VOTE OF SIX MEMBERS TO CHANGE
THE BYLAWS ANY OTHER COMMENTS
OR QUESTIONS ABOUT THAT?
OK, CAN I PROPOSE CAN YOU
PROPOSE THAT CHANGE, MR. YES, I
WILL INCORPORATE THAT CHANGE
OVER TIME THAT IS PRESENTED
BACK TO YOU THAT CHANGE WHICH
IS ACTUALLY JUST NOT CHANGING,
NOT CHANGING AND CHANGING IT
REJECTING THE CHANGE IN THE
PARLANCE OF SHARED
COLLABORATIVE DOCUMENT REVIEW.
>> OK, ANY OTHER COMMENTS
COMMISSIONER SOUTHEY ANNUAL
CLOSURE OF EMPLOYER AND
ORGANIZATION NO AFFILIATIONS
FORM.
>> YEAH THAT'S MY TO DO LIST
ISN'T ALL OF YOU OK IS UH I
GUESS I'M CURIOUS RELATIVE TO
THAT AND THEN THE ACTUAL
RECUSAL I THINK THAT'S A
DOCUMENTED THING.
ANY KIND OF COMMUNICATION IS
EITHER RECUSING AN OPEN MEETING
OR COMMUNICATION THAT'S
VOIDABLE LIKE I GUESS I'M JUST
KIND OF CURIOUS.
>> YEAH EITHER BOTH OR SHOULD
BOTH BE SIMILAR IN A WAY I I'LL
ANSWER THAT.
>> I THINK THE
PURPOSE OF THE
FORUM IS REALLY TO TO REALLY
GIVE STAFF THE ABILITY TO TO
PREDICT THINGS THAT ARE COMING
UP RIGHT.
IF THEY KNOW WHAT WHO YOUR
EMPLOYER IS, WHERE YOU MIGHT
HAVE CONFLICTS THEY MAY BE ABLE
TO TO TO REALLY KIND OF TALK TO
YOU AHEAD OF TIME, MAKE SURE
YOU'RE AWARE OF IT, MAYBE MAKE
THE REST OF THE COMMISSION
AWARE OF IT.
BUT IT DOESN'T IT STILL IT
DOESN'T TAKE AWAY YOUR IT
DOESN'T TAKE AWAY YOUR
OBLIGATION TO STILL RECUSE AT A
MEETING FOR THE PURPOSE OF JUST
KIND OF CREATING A RECORD.
BUT I WOULD SUGGEST TO ALL
OF YOU THAT IT'S STILL
APPROPRIATE TO, YOU KNOW, GET
ON THE PHONE AND CALL STAFF IF
YOU HAVE A CONCERN ABOUT ABOUT
A CONFLICT I MEAN OFTEN
ESPECIALLY IF YOU'RE NOT SURE
OR YOU WANT TO HEAR SOMEBODY
ELSE'S PERSPECTIVE I MEAN OFTEN
WE'RE JUST KIND OF WORKING THAT
OUT BEFORE MEETINGS SO THAT WE
CAN MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE ARE
COMFORTABLE AND THEY THEY THEY
SOME PEOPLE JUST WANT A SECOND
OPINION OFTEN SOMEBODY IS NOT
SURE.
SOMETIMES THEY THINK THEY WANT
TO VOTE BUT I THINK IT'S ALWAYS
A GOOD IDEA TO REACH OUT AHEAD
OF TIME UNLESS IT'S JUST
ABSOLUTELY CLEAR TO YOU.
BUT THAT WAY YOU CAN THAT WAY
YOU CAN KIND OF GET SOME ADVICE
ABOUT IT AND MAYBE HAVE MORE
CONFIDENCE ABOUT IT WHEN YOU
GET TO A MEETING.
>> OK, UM MAYBE KIND OF WITH IT
LIKE WE HAVE THE ANNUAL
DISCLOSURE SO THAT YOU HAVE AT
LEAST WITHIN A YEAR WOULD THERE
BE ANY EXPECTATION OR LIKE IF
THINGS DRAMATICALLY CHANGED FOR
A COMMISSIONER THAT THEY SHOULD
PROACTIVELY UPDATE THAT?
>> YEAH, WE COULD WE COULD
CONSIDER SOME LANGUAGE THAT
JUST PUTS THAT BURDEN FOR FEW
ON THE COMMISSION THAT SAYS IF
IF YOUR CONDITION CHANGES, IF
YOU SAY THAT YOU'RE EMPLOYED BY
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BUT
YOU END UP BEING EMPLOYED BY
WASHINGTON COUNTY OR SOMETHING
ALONG THE LINES, I'M SURE THAT
THERE'S A WAY THAT WE CAN SORT
OF I DON'T WANT TO GET TOO
CRAZY WITH IT.
YEAH, BUT WE COULD PUT
SOMETHING IN THERE THAT IT
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE.
>> IT'S IT'S NOT ONLY ANNUAL
BUT IT'S THAT'S INTENDED TO BE
AT LEAST A BACKSTOP SO THAT
AGAIN AS STAFF WE KNOW THAT IF
WE GET A PETITION FROM THRIVE
THAT I KNOW THAT I'M GOING TO
REACH OUT REACH OUT TO LET HER
KNOW THAT HEY, WE GOT THIS
APPLICATION.
>> SHE'S PROBABLY GOT TO BE
AWARE OF IT BUT BUT IN THE
EVENT SHE'S NOT, THAT GIVES US
THE ABILITY TO SAY HEY, IT
DOESN'T SEEM TO BE APPROPRIATE
FOR YOU TO BE INVOLVED IN THAT.
>> RIGHT.
OK, YEAH.
AND I'M JUST KIND OF LIKE
RUNNING THROUGH MY PLANNING
COMMISSION FOLDER BE LIKE WHAT
ARE THE TOOLS WE HAVE RIGHT NOW
JUST TO SEE IF THEY'RE LIKE
COVERED STILL APPLICABLE OR
ANYTHING IT'S CHANGED.
>> SO THAT SEEMS TO BE THE ONLY
OTHER KIND OF FORM
OF COMMUNICATION.
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE WE THE
PUBLIC SHOULD BE AWARE
OF RELATIVE TO SOME OF THESE
NOTICES?
NO, I MEAN I THINK AGAIN JUST
TO BE CLEAR, THINGS CHANGE AND
LIKE THIS HAS COME UP THIS COME
UP PARTICULARLY WITH YOU YOU
MIGHT BE INVOLVED IN A PROJECT
THAT MIGHT BE A SHORT TERM THAT
WASN'T ON YOUR DISCLOSURE
BEFORE.
YOU ARE NOT LIMITED TO THAT.
YOU KNOW, AGAIN, THAT'S THAT'S
MORE IF ANYTHING IT'S HELPING
STAFF AND IT'S IT'S PLANNING
FOR CONFLICTS THE BEST WE CAN
PLAN FOR A COMPLEX BUT THAT IS
NOT FINAL IF IT'S IF IT'S NOT
ON THERE, IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
YOU DON'T INVOKE IT.
YOU STILL SHOULD BE INVOKING
THOSE STANDARDS ON A PROJECT BY
PROJECT DECISION BY DECISION
BASIS.
OK, I DON'T KNOW THIS IS SORRY
I'M JUST THINKING OUT LOUD.
>> I KNOW YOU GUYS ALL I KNOW
BUT I JUST IS I WAS LIKE THE
IDEA THAT EVERYBODY CAN DECIDE
FOR THEMSELVES IS THERE A POINT
THAT ANY COMMISSIONER CAN JUST
RECUSE THEMSELVES WITH ANY
EXAMPLE OR ANY KIND BE LIKE NO
DISCLOSURE NECESSARY?
>> WELL, YOU'RE YOUR RULES TO
ALLOW SOMEONE TO DISCLOSE THERE
IS A CONFLICT BUT SOMETIMES
IT'S NOT.
I THINK IF IT IF DISCLOSURE
OF THAT CONFLICT WOULD REVEAL
SOME CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
THAT'S NOT REQUIRED TO BE TO BE
PLACED ON THE RECORD.
AND SO ESPECIALLY WHEN THERE'S
A SITUATION LIKE THIS, I
CERTAINLY WOULD SUGGEST THAT
YOU CONSULT US OR AHEAD OF TIME
AND WE CAN KIND OF HELP YOU
WORK THROUGH THAT.
BUT BUT THAT HAS I MEAN THAT
THAT HAS HAPPENED HISTORICALLY
IN SOME SITUATIONS IT'S NEVER
REALLY BEEN A PROBLEM BUT
ULTIMATELY BECAUSE THE PERSON
KIND OF DISCLOSES IT, IT'S I
THINK PEOPLE RESPECT THE FACT
IT'S REALLY FOR AGAIN THE
INTEGRITY OF THE BODY AND I
GUESS I WOULD SAY THIS TOO
BECAUSE I THINK ONE OF THE
CONCERNS I GUESS IN THESE
QUESTIONS AND I JUST WANT TO
MAKE SURE TO PUT THIS IN HERE
IS THAT THERE IS A CONCERN I
KNOW ABOUT THE EXPERTIZE OF THE
TABLE BUT THERE'S ALSO THIS
CONCERN ABOUT HEY, WE WE'RE
JUST NOT GOING TO HAVE ENOUGH
PEOPLE TO VOTE AND ULTIMATELY I
THINK THAT I THINK THAT THAT AS
LONG AS PEOPLE ARE DISCLOSING
AHEAD OF TIME WE CAN CROSS THAT
BRIDGE WHEN WE COME TO IT TO
SOME DEGREE.
BUT ULTIMATELY IT SHOULD ALWAYS
BE OR WHAT MY SUGGESTION WOULD
IS THAT YOU ALWAYS SORT OF TAKE
A CONSERVATIVE APPROACH AND IF
THERE'S A CONFLICT, YOU KNOW
THAT YOU RECUSE FOR THE
CONFLICT AND IF THERE'S A
PROBLEM WITH THE VOTE, WE WILL
DEAL WITH THAT SORT
OF SECONDARILY.
BUT ULTIMATELY IT'S ABOUT THE
PROTECTION OF THE INTEGRITY
OF THE DECISION MAKING AND THE
DECISION MAKING BODY.
AND SO I CERTAINLY DON'T WANT
ANYONE TRYING TO TO TO BE
MAKING A COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS
OR TRYING TO WEIGH ONE AGAINST
THE OTHER.
IT'S REALLY JUST YOU KNOW, IS
THERE A CONFLICT THAT I NEED TO
STEP AWAY FROM THAT'S GREAT.
I CAN'T WORRY ABOUT WHAT'S
HAPPENING WITH THE FACT THAT
THERE ARE ONLY THREE
COMMISSIONERS LEFT.
WE WILL WE WILL CROSS THAT
BRIDGE WHEN WE COME TO IT.
IF WE COME TO IT, WHICH WE
HOPEFULLY WILL NOT I CAN'T WAIT
FOR THAT PROJECT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS?
I AM GOING TO READ THE MOTION.
THE PROPOSED MISSION IS TO
POSTPONE BYLAWS AMENDMENTS TO
THE NOVEMBER 14TH CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AGENDA MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER SILVER, SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER DISH ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY I I ANY OPPOSED THE MOTION
CARRIES.
THANK YOU MR. MACDONALD.
WE APPRECIATE.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT.
YOU CAN SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSIONER.
THERE ARE NONE SO WE WILL NOT
DO THAT.
WE WILL ONLY CALL ON REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PESTANA NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE USE THE RAISE HAND
FEATURE IF VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA MUTE TELEVISION BACKGROUND
SOUNDS SO WE MAY HEAR YOU
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY INCLUDES PUBLIC
COMMENT ITEM TWELVE COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS IS THERE ANY
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
COMMISSIONER EVY'S REDUCTION
OF YOUR REQUIREMENTS?
YEAH THANKS.
ANY OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS WITH DRIVE THRU LANES
I'M SURE WITH A BE AG EMERGENCY
EXIT OUT OF DIRECTORY EMERGENCY
.
LET'S TALK ABOUT LET'S EXPAND
THE DRIVE THRU LINE THAT'LL BE
TWO LANE MINIMUM.
OK, ANY OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
AND WE ARE ON TO ADJOURNMENT.
CAN I GET SOMEBODY TO MOVE FOR
A GERMAN COMMISSIONER SO THEY
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER DESH
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I WE ARE
JERDE